www.iceti.org
March 07-11 2018 Budapest Hungary
BOOK OF ABSTRACTS 2018
I C E T I
E N G I N E E R I N G T E C H N O L O G Y I N N O V A T I O N
II INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON
ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY
AND INNOVATION
ISBN: 978-605-67955-0-3Organized by
Partners
II INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION
ISBN 978-605-67955-0-3II BOOK OF ABSTRACTS OF THE
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ENGINEERING TECHNOLOGY AND
INNOVATION
07-11 MARCH PUDAPEST
Edited by
Prof. Dr. Özer Çýnar
Published, 2018
info@iceti.org
www.iceti.org
This work is subject to copyright. All rights are reserved, whether the whole or part of
the material is concerned. Nothing from this publication may be translated, reproduced,
stored in a computerized system or published in any form or in any manner, including,
but not limited to electronic, mechanical, reprographic or photographic, without prior
written permission from the publisher.
info@iceti.org
The individual contributions in this publication and any liabilities arising from them
remain the responsibility of the authors.
The publisher is not responsible for possible damages, which could be a result of content
derived from this publication.SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE
1. Prof. Dr. Adisa Paric - University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
2. Prof. Dr. Aleksandar Dimitrov - Ss. Cyril and Methodius University - Macedonia
3. Prof. Dr. Anita Grozdanov - Ss. Cyril and Methodius University - Macedonia
4. Prof. Dr. Asif Šabanovic – International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
5. Prof. Dr. Christos Douligeris - University of Erlangen-Nurnberg - Germany
6. Prof. Dr. Dragutin T. Mihailovic - University of Novi Sad - Serbia
7. Prof. Dr. Erkan Þahinkaya – Ýstanbul Medeniyet University - Turkey
8. Prof. Dr. Falko Dressler - University of Paderborn - Germany
9. Prof. Dr. Harry Miller – International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
10. Prof. Dr. Houssam Toutanji – Western Michigan University - USA
11. Prof. Dr. Ian F. Akyýldýz – Georgia Institute of Technology - USA
12. Prof. Dr. Ýsmail Usta - Marmara University - Turkey
13. Prof. Dr. Liljana Gavrilovska - Ss Cyril and Methodius University - Macedonia
14. Prof. Dr. Lukman Thalib - Qatar University - Qatar
15. Prof. Dr. M. Asghar Fazel – University of Environment - Iran
16. Prof. Dr. Mehmet Akalin - Marmara University - Turkey
17. Prof. Dr. Mehmet Kitiþ – Süleyman Demirel University - Turkey
18. Prof. Dr. Muammer Koç - Hamad bin Khalifa University - Qatar
19. Prof. Dr. Özer Çýnar – Yýldýz Technical University - Turkey
20. Prof. Dr. Perica Paunovik - Ss. Cyril and Methodius University - Macedonia
21. Prof. Dr. Rifat Škrijelj – University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
22. Prof. Dr. Samir Dug - University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
23. Prof. Dr. Tanju Karanfil – Clemson University - USA
24. Prof. Dr. Tibor Biro - National University of Public Service, Budapest - Hungary
25. Prof. Dr. Ümit Alver – Karadeniz Technical University - Turkey
26. Prof. Dr. Wolfgang Gerstacker - University of Erlangen-Nurnberg - Germany
27. Prof. Dr. Yýlmaz Yýldýrým - Bülent Ecevit University - Turkey
28. Prof. Dr. Yousef Haik - Hamad bin Khalifa University - Qatar
29. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Alaa Al Hawari - Qatar University - Qatar
30. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Izudin Dzafic - International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
31. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Muhamed Hadziabdic - International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
32. Assoc. Prof. Dr. Nusret Dreškovic - University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
33. Assist. Prof. Dr. Faruk Berat Akçeþme - International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
34. Assist. Prof. Dr. Fouzi Tabet - German Biomass Research Center - Germany
35. Assist. Prof. Dr. Haris Gavranovic - International University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
36. Assist. Prof. Dr. Murat Karakaya - Atýlým University - Turkey
37. Assist. Prof. Dr. Sasan Rabieh - Shahid Beheshti University - Iran
38. Assist. Prof. Dr. Ševkija Okeric - University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
39. Dr. Hasan Bora Usluer - Galatasaray University - Turkey
40. Dr. Muhammet Uzun - RWTH Aachen University - Germany
41. Dr. Zsolt Hetesi - National University of Public Service, Budapest - Hungary
42. Dr. Zsolt T. Németh - National University of Public Service, Budapest - HungaryORGANIZATION COMMITTEE
Chairman(s) of the Conference
Prof. Dr. Özer Çýnar – Yýldýz Technical University
Members of the Committee
Prof. Dr. M. Asghar Fazel – University of Environment - Iran
Prof. Dr. Ümit Alver - Karadeniz Technial University - Turkey
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Lukman Thalib - Qatar University - Qatar
Assoc. Prof. Dr. Nusret Dreškovic - University of Sarajevo - Bosnia and Herzegovina
Assist. Prof. Dr. Sasan Rabieh - Shahid Beheshti University - Iran
Alma Ligata - Zenith Group - Bosnia and Herzegovina
Ismet Uzun - Zenith Group - Bosnia and Herzegovina
Musa Kose - Zenith Group - Bosnia and HerzegovinaWELCOME TO ICETI 2018
On behalf of the organizing committee, we are pleased to announce that the International
Conference On Engineering Technology And Innovation is held from March 07 to 11,
2018 in Budapest, Hungary.
ICETI 2018 provides an ideal academic platform for researchers to
present the latest research findings and describe emerging technologies, and directions in
Engineering Technology And Innovation. The conference seeks to contribute to presenting novel
research results in all aspects of Engineering Technology And Innovation.
The conference aims to bring together leading academic scientists, researchers and research
scholars to exchange and share their experiences and research results about all aspects of
Engineering Technology And Innovation. It also provides the premier interdisciplinary forum for
scientists, engineers, and practitioners to present their latest research results, ideas,
developments, and applications in al lareas of Engineering Technology And Innovation. The
conference will bring together leading academic scientists, researchers and scholars in the
domain of interest from around the world. ICETI 2018 is the oncoming event of the successful
conference series focusing on Engineering Technology And Innovation.
The International Conference on Engineering Technology and Innovation (ICETI 2018) aims to
bring together leading academic scientists, researchers and research scholars to exchange and
share their experiences and research results about all aspects of Engineering Technology and
Innovation. It also provides the premier interdisciplinary forum for scientists, engineers, and
practitioners to present their latest research results, ideas, developments, and applications in all
areas of Engineering Technology and Innovation. The conference will bring together leading
academic scientists, researchers and scholars in the domain of interest from around the world.
The conference's goals are to provide a scientific forum for all international prestige scholars
around the world and enable the interactive exchange of state-of-the-art knowledge. The
conference will focus on evidence-based benefits proven in technology and innovation and
engineering experiments.
Best regards,
Prof. Dr.Özer ÇINARContent Page
Smart Die Casting Foundry 4.0 1.
3d Imaging And Visualization Of Engineering Materials With Optical Metrology 2.
Investigation Quality Of Durum Wheat Genotypes And Determination Of The Parents To
Use In The Breeding Program
3.
Examination Quality Of Durum Wheat Landraces And Specification Of The Parents For
Gene Pool Of Turkey
4.
The Research On Quality Of New Durum Wheat Varieties With Gge Biplot
5.
Evaluate Of Promising Lines Of Durum Wheat On Quality With Gge Biplot
6.
Numerical Simulation Of Single Bubble Nucleation Flow Boiling Both From An Artificial
Cavity And From A Flat Surface And Pool Boiling From A Flat Surface In Horizontal
Channel
7.
Historical Gediz Houses: Structural Analysis Of The Building And An Example Of The
Restoration Work 8.
Spectroscopic Surface Investigation Of Laser Treated Cfrps To Achieve Optimum
Adhesive Bonding 9.
Effect Of Mechanical Interlocking With Various Micro Hole Formations On The Adhesive
Bonding Strength Of Cfrp/Cfrp Joints
10.
Effects Of The Laser Wavelength On The Pre-Treatment Of Carbon Fiber-Reinforced
Plastics For Adhesive Joint 11.
Novel Surface Structuring Of Cfrps For Adhesive Bonding: Effect Of Laser Induced
Scribe Pattern Angle On Adhesion Strength
12.
Comparison Of The Multi Line Anchored System And Bored Pile System Under
Earthquake Effect
13.
Effect Of Reaction Conditions And Reactor Types On The Use Of Industrial Wastes To
Prepare Calcium Carbonates For Co2 Sequestration By Aqueous Mineral Carbonation
Process
14.
Mechanical Properties Of Wood Plastic Nanocomposites Reinforced With Sepiolite Nano
Fibers (Snfs)
15.Production Of Activated Carbon From Spent Mushroom Compost
16.
Comparison Of Color Values Of Polyester Fabrics Woven From Convantional And
Microfilament Yarns 17.
Examination Of The Effect Of Temper Process On Dual Phase Steel
18.
The Tensile And Bursting Strength Evaluation Of Linear Low Density Polyethylene
(Lldpe) Spunbond Fabrics 19.
Blended Of New Generation Regenerated Cellulosic Fibers With Polyester And Cotton:
Thereof Knitted Fabrics Air Permeability 20.
Technical And Economical Approaches In Designing Of Antifoaming Emulsions For
Leather And Textile Industry
21.
Iot And Arduino Based Mobile Accessible Smart Parking System
22.
Effect Of Carbon Black On Electrical Rapid Curing Of Concrete
23.
Mechanical Properties Of Epoxy Based Polymer Composites With Fly Ash And Furnace
Slag
24.
Photocatalytic Degradation Of Reactive Blue 4 Using Tio2 Nanoparticle-Boron Industry
Waste 25.
Ag@Au Nanoparticles Anchored Calix[4]Arene Functionalized Graphene Quantum Dots:
Simultaneous Determination Of L-Tyrosine And L-Tryptophan
26.
Investigation Of Wickability Properties Of Microfilament Woven Fabrics 27.
Bursting Strength Of Knitted Fabrics Produced From Of Polybutylene Terephthalate
(Pbt) Yarns With Different False-Twist Texturing Parameters
28.
Finite Element Analysis Applications To Textile Materials: A Case Study On Pet Yarn
Mechanical Properties
29.
Investigation Of Microstructural And Mechanical Properties Of Graphene Reinforced
Al-4cu Composites
30.
Processing And Characterization Of Equatomic Fenicu Alloys Via Mechanical Alloying
31.
Investigation Of Microstructural And Mechanical Properties Of Graphene Reinforced 32.Al-10si-2cu Composites
Effects On Hay Yield Of Common Vetch (Vicia Sativa L.) And Triticale (X Triticosecale
Wittmack.) Mixture Rates In Bingol Conditions
33.
Determination Of Silage Potential And Nutritional Values Of Some Triticale Cultivars 34.
Effect Of Final Thicknesses On Mechanical Properties Of Hot Rolled Coil Products Made
Of High Yield Strength Steels For Cold Forming
35.
Investigation Of Flavonol Transportation Mechanism By Using Polymer Inclusion
Membrane
36.
Co-Pyrolysis Of Waste Tyres With Rice Husk In A Fixed Bed Batch Reactor 37.
Behavior Of Steel Wire Fibred High Performance Concrete Plates Under Loosely
Clamped Boundary Conditions
38.
Investigation Of Microstructure And Mechanical, Corrosion Properties Of Aluminum
Alloys Coated With Nickel-Copper Based Powder Aa5754 Through High Velocity
Oxygen Fuel Powder Spraying Method (Hvof) When Combined Through Friction Stir
Welding
39.
Microstructural Characterization And Heat Treatmenteffect On Photoluminescence Of
Bata2o6:Sm3+Phosphor
40.
Effect Of The Additions Of Dehydrated Geopolymer Powders On Compressive Strength
And Microstructure Of The Fine Alumina Powder Reinforced Na-Metakaolin Based
Geopolymer Composite.
41.
Investigation Of The Reduction Rate Of Composite Pellets Containing Flue Dust And Mill
Scales At Different Temperatures
42.
Extraction Of Vanadium And Zirconium From Red Mud With Acidic Leaching 43.
Hardware Based Face Matching System 44.
Hybrid Method For Reducing Illumination Effect In Face Recognition Systems
45.
Automatic Calculation Of Polarity Rates In Turkish Words 46.
Ufmc Transmission With Different Type Of Filters In Multipath Channel For 5g
Networks
47.
Macro Nutrient Uptake Of Tall Fescue (Festuca Arundinacea) As Effected By Salt Stress
48.Effects Of Various Fertilizers On Yield And Water Use Of Pumpkin Seed
49.
Investigating The Effect Of Parallelism On A Spark-Based Recommendation System 50.
Usage Of Natural Language Processing Techniques In Software Engineering Practices 51.
Applications Development For Easy Learning Of Geographical Information Systems 52.
A Novel Integrated Approach For Green Supplier Selection By Using Macbeth And
Taguchi Loss Functions
53.
Cutting Force Prediction For End Milling Process 54.
Free Vibration Of Defected Cantilever Carbon Nanorod By Using Nonlocal Elasticity
55.
A Novel Planar Reconfigurable Microwave Filter Design
56.
An Investigation Of Injection Moulded Products Development
57.
Investigation Of Adsorption Of Oleic Acid From Sunflower Oil By Using Amberlyst 21 As
An Adsorbent
58.
Evaluation Of A Novel Design For Improving The Mechanical Properties Of Carbon And
Glass Fiber Reinforced Filament Wound Composite Tanks Exposed To Internal
Pressures
59.
Optimization Of Mr Fluid Polishing Condition For Improving The Shape Accuracy Of
Cover Glass Edge 60.
Application Of Maskless Lithography Process For Mems Probe Tip Fabrication
61.
The Properties Of Yarns Containing Recycle Polyester Fiber In Different Yarn Number
62.
Fabric Based Plain Heaters As An Innovative Approach For Vehicle Heating: A
Theoretical Research On Comparative Performance 63.
Comparison Of Performances Of Parallel And Serial Connected Counter Flow RanqueHilsch Vortex Tubes System Experimentally 64.
Deformation Of Soil At Tunnel Construction
65.Performance Improvement Of An Intelligent Material Handling System 66.
Determination Of The Dynamic Behavior Of A Single Degree Of Freedom Shear Frame
By Video Processing
67.
Selection Of Reinforced Concrete Formwork System With Moora Multi Criteria Decision
Making Method
68.
The Impact Of The Use Of Different Slab Types On The Rough Construction Cost Of The
Same Architectural Reinforced Concrete Buildings
69.
Water And Yield Relationship For Drip Irrigated Pea In Kayseri Conditions
70.
Effects Of Different Irrigation Levels On Oil And Fatty Acid Composition Of Pumpkin
Seeds 71.
Determination Of Potential Nutritive Value Of Turkish Sorghum (Sorghum Bicolor L.)
Landrace
72.
Morphological Characteristics Of Newly Selected Lines From Turkish Sorghum
Landraces 73.
A Facile Growth Of Chalcogenides By Sulfurization Of Electrodeposited Metal Layer(S)
Stack 74.
A Versatile Method To Form 3d Pn-Juntions For Potentially Higher Photon To Current
Conversion Efficiency
75.
Importance Of Probiotics In Daily Diet 76.
Inactivation Of Microorganisms In Food Materials By Cold Plasma Technology 77.
Creating Stable And Versatile Thin Organic Films/Citrate-Capped Gold Nanoparticles
Structure For Sensors Applications
78.
Covalent Modification Of Si (111) Electrodes By Thin Organic Films For Chemical
Sensors Applications
79.
Parking Nearest To Light Tracking Vehicle With Microprocessor-Based Smart Parking
System 80.
Breakfast Plate Design With Step Motor Control
81.
Sorption, Diffusivity And Permeability Properties Of Polymer Active Packaging Films 82.Incorporated Nisin And Chitosan
Applications Of Response Surface Methodology To Optimize Product Development In
Extrusion Cooking In Cereal Technology 83.
Potential Applications Of Cephalaria Saponins In Industry
84.
Cytotoxic, Immunomodulatory And Hemolytic Activities Of Saponins
85.
Comparison Of Prediction Performance Of Data Mining Algorithms And Response
Surface Equations
86.
Investigation Of Free Motion Of Flap For A Vertical Axis Wind Turbine Blade 87.
Improving Cluster Analysis Using K-Means Based And Weighted Clustering Ensembles 88.
Determination Of Turbidity In Filyos Stream Water By Artificial Neural Network 89.
Comparable Studies Of Dynamic Magnetic And Hysteretic Properties Of The Ising-Type
Core/Shell Nanowires Systems* 90.
The Microstructural And Mechanical Properties Of As-Cast And Melt-Spun Al-5zn-1mg
Alloy
91.
A Hybrid Multiple Criteria Decision Making Approach For Academic Staff Selection 92.
A New Integer Programming Model For Inverse Multiple Criteria Sorting Problem 93.
An Optimization Model For Production Planning In An International Chemical Company 94.
A Statistical Approach Of Ni Element Effect On Cost Saving In Hot Dip Galvanizing
Process
95.
In Pursuit Of Crowdfunding Projects Success Chance Estimation Using Correlational
Topic Modeling Algorithm 96.
A Cfd Study Of Separating Reattaching Flows
97.
Performance Of Zero-Forcing Receive Beamforming With Signal Space Diversity In The
Presence Of Channel Estimation Errors
98.
Surface Characterization Of Boronized Pure Tungsten 99.The Characterization Of Pack Boronized W-Cu Based Tungsten Alloy 100.
A Hybrid Approach For Capacity Planning And Production Scheduling In A Textile
Company
101.
Comparison Study On Lay-Up Configurations For Composite Wind Turbine Blade 102.
Performance Comparison Of Levy Flight Mechanism In Dragonfly Optimization And
Gravitational Search Algorithm 103.
Investigation Of The Change Of Mechanical And Physical Properties Of Aa7075 Alloy By
Rra Heat Treatment Applied At Different Time And Temperature
104.
A Research For Disposition Of Making Innovation Among Departments 105.
Prediction Of R&D Budgets With Time Series Analysis Method
106.
Influence Of Different Si Levels On Mechanical Properties Of Aluminium Casting Alloys 107.
The Mechanical Properties Of Sr Modification On Aluminium Casting Alloys 108.
Properties Of Boards Made From Wood/Cotton Waste Mixtures 109.
Pine Little Needles: Its Properties And Potential Utilizations 110.
A Study On Line Rate Neighboring For Mlr Wdm Optical Networks 111.
Aerodynamic Behavior Of Wind Turbine Airfoil Under Unsteady Wind Speeds
112.
Product Innovation In Sewing Machines 113.
A New Hybrid Stochastic-Deterministic Optimization Method Based On Filled Function
114.
Comparison Of Method A1 And B Of Tensile Test On Aluminium Specimens
115.
Factorial Design Contrast Analysis Based Identification Of The Lactic Acid Bacterial
Growth In Sausages Stored At Different Temperatures 116.
Design And Optimization Of Amorphous Compact Microstrip Antenna Using Artificial
Bee Colony Algorithm For Microwave Imaging Applications
117.Investigating The Corrosion Behaviour Of Aa6060 Alloy In Naoh-Na2sio3 Solution
118.
The Effect Of Preform Preheating On Microstructural And Mechanical Features Of 80%
Cp-Ti Reinforced A356 Matrix Composite 119.
Dry Sliding Wear Properties Of Aa7075 Aluminum Matrix Hybrid Composites 120.
Cooling Slope Casting And Thixoforging Of A319 Alloy 121.
Investigation Of The Effects Of Solution Heat Treatment Time On Eutectic Silicon For
A356 Alloy
122.
Stabilizing Kaolinite Clay With Liquid Polymer Resin 123.
Modeling Of Lactic Acid Bacteria Concentration And Storage Time Dependent Storage
Temperature Of Emulsion Type Sausages Using Artificial Neural Networks 124.
Evaluation Of Waste Marble Usage In Bituminous Mixtures
125.
Guidelines For Preliminary Design Of Wave Barriers
126.
Mhd Flow And Heat Transfer Over A Radially Stretching Disk
127.
Welding Of Aa7075 To Galvanized Steel By Cold Metal Transfer Method
128.
A Comperative Study About The Fe-C-Cr And Fe-Cr-C-B Based Flux Cored Wires Used In
Hardfacing
129.
A Successive Side-Peak Elimination Technique For Unambiguous Boc Signal
Synchronization In Global Navigation Satellite Systems
130.
Prediction Of The Lactic Acid Bacteria Growth Caused By Storage Conditions In Vacuum
Packed Sausages Using Polynomial Surface Modeling Method
131.
Determining The Conditions For Success Of Wart Treatment With Cryotherapy Using
Decision Trees Method
132.
Experimental Analysis For The Thermal Performance Of A Double Pipe Heat Exchanger
With Sio2-Water Nanofluid
133.
Effects Of Elliptical Condenser On The Performance Of A Vapor Compression
Refrigeration System
134.Clustering Moodle User Data: A Case Study 135.
Impact Of Technology Based Learning Environment On Student Performance In A Civil
Engineering Course
136.
The Determination Of Coastline Change Using Support Vector Machine In Berdan Dam
Lake, Turkey
137.1
SMART DIE CASTING FOUNDRY 4.0
Ali Serdar Vanlia*, Anil Akdogana
aYildiz Technical University
*svanli@yildiz.edu.tr
Abstract:
A smart foundry, according to the definition of Industry 4.0, is a highly flexible production system
that is able to produce small lot sizes and even single parts. To realize this, various tools and
concepts need to be adapted. The use of modern information technology and the flexibilization of
foundry machines and foundry processes is necessary to achieve this goal. If machine and process
data are accessible without barriers, there are a lot of possibilities to link these and to carry out
comprehensive optimization along the process chain of die casting. The logistics and processes of
the foundry are thus transparent and can be tracked at any time. The point of consumption of
energy and resources are visible, the material flows can be analyzed and optimized in detail.
Complex interactions can also be deciphered and the entire system die-casting can be adjusted to an
optimum operating point. To realize this vision are still some challenges to master. Within the
framework of the research work, examples from the practice show potentials for the outlined vision,
the "Smart Die Casting Foundry 4.0".
Keywords: Industry 4.0, Die Casting, Smart Foundry
*2
3D IMAGING AND VISUALIZATION OF ENGINEERING MATERIALS WITH
OPTICAL METROLOGY
Anil Akdogana, Ali Serdar Vanlia*
aYildiz Technical University
*svanli@yildiz.edu.tr
Abstract:
Optical imaging and visualization base on classical optical techniques by using novel devices and
instrumentation. Researchers can analyze structures, associated electronic systems, materials,
specifications and manufacturing marks with help of optical systems. Innovative optical
measurement devices and microscopes combine the speed and accuracy requirements of the
researchers and industry. The invention of noncontact type techniques is in a sense due to the
drawbacks of the contact type stylus measurement techniques. These non-contact measurement
methods have unique ability to measure not only in laboratory conditions but also in-process of
different types of materials like metals or polymers. This research is about the use of innovative
optical techniques in 3D imaging and visualization of engineering materials performance analysis
experimentally. In the conducted experiments the surface conditions of the brand new milling tool
qualities are visualized. After milling operations at different process parameters, the worn mills were
analyzed with optical metrology, as well. The results are profitable not only about life predictions of
the tools but also useful for coating conditions of the work-piece surfaces.
Keywords: Optical Metrology, 3d Imaging, Visualization
*3
INVESTIGATION QUALITY OF DURUM WHEAT GENOTYPES AND
DETERMINATION OF THE PARENTS TO USE IN THE BREEDING
PROGRAM
Enver Kendala*, Yusuf Dogana, Erol Orala, Abdullah Erena
aMardin Artuklu University
*enver21_1@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Genetic resources are crucial for the identification of parents and the enrichment of the gene pool
that can be used in the development of new varieties for better nutrition of people. For this
purpose, 9 promising line, 131 populations of landraces and 5 new varieties were used in the study.
The experiment was set up in randomized blocks with 7 replications, according to the augmented
(increased) experimental design in 2015-2016 growing season. In the study, we examined total
nitrogen content, protein ratio, wheat color analysis (L* brightness, b* jaundice, a* redness) of 145
genotypes of durum wheat seeds. According to analysis of variance, highly significant differences
(P<0.05 or P<0.01) were determined for total nitrogen, protein content and L* brightness, while
were not significant for b* jaundice, a* redness. The superiority of the genotypes was determined by
the first two principal components (IPC1 and IPC2) and to create a two-dimensional GGE biplot. The
sum squares of the first two components were accounted by 45.34% (PC1) and 40.03%(PC2)for
genotypes. The GGE biplot indicated that 9(nine) sectors occurred among genotypes and quality
parameters. On the other hand, three groups occurred among the quality parameters based on the
genotypes. The scatter plot demonstrated that there is high correlation between b* jaundice, a*
redness. The results showed that cultivars and more landraces have general adaptability for all
quality parameters, while some genotypes (79, 78, ..), (22,102,....), (3..) and 121, 5,...) showed
specific adaptation for N, PC, L*, a* and b* respectively. According to the biplot techniques, G36
came forward with the N, P and a* and desirable landraces, G5 for b*, 30 stable line for all quality
parameters, while (128, 61…) and majority of promising lines (L4, L6) came not forward with any
quality parameters. The results of the study indicated that majority of landraces can be used as
parents to improve the quality of durum wheat varieties. The study indicated that GGE biplot can be
used to evaluate the genotypes as graphically to select the best genotypes for parents to use in
breeding program.
Keywords: Durum Wheat Genotypes; GGE Biplot; Quality Parameters.
*4
EXAMINATION QUALITY OF DURUM WHEAT LANDRACES AND
SPECIFICATION OF THE PARENTS FOR GENE POOL OF TURKEY
Yusuf Dogana, Enver Kendala*, Erol Orala, Abdullah Erena
aMardin Artuklu University
*enver21_1@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Landraces are very important as genetic resources for identity of parents to improve gene pool and
develop new quality varieties for better people's health. To this end, 131 populations of landraces
(collected from Shout east of Anatolia Region) were used in the study. The experiment was set up in
randomized blocks with 7 replications, according to the augmented (increased) experimental design
in 2015-2016 growing season. In the study, we investigated total nitrogen content, protein ratio,
wheat color analysis (L* brightness, b* jaundice, a* redness) of 131 genotypes of durum wheat
landraces seeds. According to analysis of variance, highly significant differences (P<0.05 or P<0.01)
were determined for total nitrogen, protein content and L* brightness, while were not significant for
b* jaundice, a* redness. The superiority of the genotypes was determined by the first two principal
components (IPC1 and IPC2) and to create a two-dimensional GGE biplot. The sum squares of the
first two components were accounted by 46.50% (PC1) and 39.14%(PC2)for landraces. The GGE
biplot indicated that 10 (ten) sectors occurred among landraces and quality parameters. On the
other hand, three groups occurred among the quality parameters based on the landraces. The
scatter plot showed that there is high correlation between b* jaundice, a* redness. The results
demonstrated that majority landraces have general adaptability for quality parameters (N, PC, L*, a*
and b*), while some landraces for only L*. (79, 78..), (22,102..), (3..) and 121, 5..) showed specific
adaptation for N, PC, L*, a* and b* respectively. According to the biplot techniques, G36 came
forward with the N, P and it was desirable a population, G5 for a* and b*, G30 was stable line for all
quality parameters, while some landraces (49, 61 and 128, ..) were not related with any quality
parameters. The results of the study indicated that majority of landraces can be saved as parents to
improve the gene pool and release new quality durum wheat varieties. On the other hand, the study
indicated that GGE biplot can be used to evaluate the landraces as graphically to select the best ones
for parents of breeding program and contribute the gene pool.
Keywords: Landraces; GGE Biplot; Durum Wheat, Quality
*5
THE RESEARCH ON QUALITY OF NEW DURUM WHEAT VARIETIES
WITH GGE BIPLOT
Erol Orala, Enver Kendala*, Yusuf Dogana, Abdullah Erena
aMardin Artuklu University
*enverkendal@artuklu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Nowadays, quality of durum wheat is very important for healthy fed in Middle East countries,
because majority of people are fed from durum wheat product (bulghur, macaroni, bread)
Therefore, five (5) new durum wheat varieties which grown as common in Shout east of Anatolia
Region were used in the study. The trial was set up in randomized blocks with 7 replications in 2015-
2016 growing season. In the study, we searched total nitrogen content, protein ratio, wheat color
analysis (L* brightness, b* jaundice, a* redness) of new durum wheat varieties seeds. The superiority
of the varieties was determined by the first two principal components (IPC1 and IPC2) and to create
a two-dimensional GGE biplot. The sum squares of the first two components were accounted by
65.27% (PC1) and 33.81% (PC2) for varieties. The GGE biplot showed that 4 (for) sectors occurred
among varieties and quality parameters. Moreover, three groups occurred among the quality
parameters (first group-a* and b*, second group-P and N, third group only L*) based on the
varieties. The scatter plot showed that there is high correlation between both b* jaundice - a*
redness and PC-N. The results indicated that Guneyyildizi variety was the best stable for quality
parameters, while Sahinbey was desirable and Artuklu both undesirable and un stable varieties.
According to the biplot techniques, Sahinbey came forward especially with the N and PC, Artuklu for
a* and b*, Guneyyildizi, Hasanbey and Zuhre varieties for L*. The results of the study demonstrated
that Sahinbey can be cultivated to improve all quality parameters, Guneyyildizi, to improve quality of
bulghur and Artuklu, to improve quality of macaroni. On the other hand, the study indicated that
GGE biplot can be used to evaluate the varieties as graphically to select the best ones and contribute
quality of durum wheat industry.
Keywords: Durum Wheat Variety; GGE Biplot, Quality, Middle East.
*6
EVALUATE OF PROMISING LINES OF DURUM WHEAT ON QUALITY
WITH GGE BIPLOT
Abdullah Erena, Enver Kendala*, Yusuf Dogana, Erol Orala
aMardin Artuklu University
*enverkendal@artuklu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Quality is very important for breeding program of durum wheat, because most people care to use
the healthy-products (bulghur, macaroni, bread) of wheat). Therefore, in the study, nine (9)
promising line were used. In the study, we examined total nitrogen content, protein ratio, wheat
color analysis (L* brightness, b* jaundice, a* redness) of durum wheat promising lines seeds. The
superiority of the varieties was determined by the first two principal components (IPC1 and IPC2)
and to create a two-dimensional GGE biplot. The sum squares of the first two components were
accounted by 59.83% (PC1) and 23.17% (PC2) for promising lines. The GGE biplot showed that 6 (six)
sectors occurred among lines and quality parameters. Moreover, three groups occurred among the
quality parameters (first group-N-P and a*, second group-only b*, third group only L*) based on the
lines. The scatter plot showed that there is high correlation between both b* jaundice - a* redness
and PC-N. The results indicated that L21, L22 and L23 were the best stable for all quality parameters,
while L18 was desirable for L* and L16-L17 and L19 both undesirable and un stable. According to the
biplot techniques, L21, L22 and L23 came forward for all quality parameters, L14 especially for PC
and N, L13 for b* The results of the study demonstrated that L21, L22 and L23 can be candidate to
release and improve quality parameters of durum wheat. On the other hand, the study indicated
that GGE biplot can be used to evaluate the candidates as graphically to select the best ones and
release as variety to contribute quality of durum wheat industry.
Keywords: Promising Lines,Durum Wheat GGE Biplot, Quality.
*7
NUMERICAL SIMULATION OF SINGLE BUBBLE NUCLEATION FLOW
BOILING BOTH FROM AN ARTIFICIAL CAVITY AND FROM A FLAT
SURFACE AND POOL BOILING FROM A FLAT SURFACE IN HORIZONTAL
CHANNEL
Mehmetcan Donertasa*, Benjamin Franzb, Axel Sielaffb, Sabiha Yildiza, Peter Stephanb
aYildiz Technical University,Department Of Mechanical Engineering,Energy Program
bDarmstadt Technical University Department Of Mechanical Engineering , Technical
*mmehmetcan786@gmail.com
Abstract:
In this study, Volume of Fluid (VOF) method in OpenFoam software is used to numerically simulate
superheated FC-72 single bubble nucleation during flow boiling both from an artificial cavity and flat
surface and single bubble nucleation during pool boiling from a flat surface.Semi implicit MULES
algorithm were used in OpenFoam for the transport of VOF parameter. All simulations were
performed in 3D. FC-72 was used as a working fluid and BaF2 was used for channel and cavity walls.
The studies of the pool boiling on the flat surface were carried out on 0.01g 0.1g, 1g, 10g gravity
magnitudes. The studies of flow boiling from a flat surface were conducted with 0.15 m/s, 0.3m/s,
0.6m/s velocity magnitudes on the constant 1g separately. In addition the first and the second
studies which were conducted on 1g gravity magnitudes, were compared. It has been observed that
the effect of gravity on the examined parameters reduced as a result of increasing velocity
magnitudes. The studies of flow boiling from an artificial cavity were conducted for four different
cavity depths on 1g gravity magnitude and with 10m/s flow velocity magnitude. Cavity diameters
were defined as 30 micrometers for 3, 12, 25 and 50 micrometers cavities depths. In the studies with
cavity depths 3 micrometers and 12 micrometers, the bubble completely detached from the cavity
and after detachment no steam remained in the cavities. In the studies with the cavities depth 25
micrometers and 50 micrometers before bubble detachment, bubble took shape such as bottleneck
and detachment occurs from this necks. After the detachment some vapor remained in the cavities
and the second bubble started to grow. As a result gravity and velocity magnitudes and cavity depth
have important effects on bubble growing period, detachment diameter, and detachment time.
Keywords: Single Bubble Flow Boiling, Flow Boiling In Horizontal Channel,Single Bubble
Nucleation,Volume Of Fluid
*8
HISTORICAL GEDIZ HOUSES: STRUCTURAL ANALYSIS OF THE
BUILDING AND AN EXAMPLE OF THE RESTORATION WORK
Aylin Ozodabasa*, Tugce Yuksela
aBilecik Seyh Edebali University
*aylin.ozodabas@bilecik.edu.tr
Abstract:
The architectural and structural aspects of the traditional Gediz houses in Kutahya province have
been examined. The static situations were analyzed and interpreted by taking into account the work
done by Kutahya Regional Directorate of Conservation of Cultural Assets. Kutahya Regional
Directorate of Preservation of Cultural Heritage has decided that these historic houses should also
serve as dwellings and restoration work have been done in this direction. Among the studies carried
out in this study, one structure was taken up, survey and restitution work and restoration projects,
pictures and information about the structure before and after restoration were given.
Keywords: Restoration, Restitution, Survey, Structure, Gediz Houses
*Bilecik Seyh Edebali University9
SPECTROSCOPIC SURFACE INVESTIGATION OF LASER TREATED CFRPS
TO ACHIEVE OPTIMUM ADHESIVE BONDING
Mustafa Ozgur Boraa*, Belgin Genc Oztopraka, Erhan Akmana, Onur Cobana, Arif Demira
aKocaeli University
*ozgur_bora@yahoo.coom
Abstract:
Adhesive bonding of carbon fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRP) has number of advantages for joining of
components when surface is prepared properly. If strong bond is to be achieved, there should be
intermolecular and chemical interactions between CFRP surface and adhesive molecules depending
on the chemical bonding theory. Laser surface treatment is a developing method in preparation the
CFRP surfaces for adhesive bonding to provide reproducibly clean, slightly rough and preferably
active surface. In the present study, lasers that emit radiation in different regions (UV and IR) of the
electromagnetic spectrum were used to prepare the CFRP surfaces for the best adhesive bonding
case. In order to determine both elemental and molecular properties of the surfaces, spectroscopy
techniques such as laser induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
(XPS) and Fourier Transform Infrared Attenuated Total Reflection (FTIR-ATR) were performed. When
the tensile test results were compared with spectroscopic data, it was seen that, an increase in the
amount of oxygen and oxygen functional group on the laser treated CFRP surface improved the
adhesion.
Keywords: Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics, Adhesive Bonding, Laser Surface Treatment, Libs, Xps,
Ftir-Atr
*This work is supported by TUBITAK, "The Scientific and Technological Research Supporting Program 1001"
contact number of 215M77510
EFFECT OF MECHANICAL INTERLOCKING WITH VARIOUS MICRO HOLE
FORMATIONS ON THE ADHESIVE BONDING STRENGTH OF CFRP/CFRP
JOINTS
Mustafa Ozgur Boraa*, Yalcin Erdogana, Erhan Akmana, Onur Cobana, Belgin Genc Oztopraka,
Arif Demira
aKocaeli University
*ozgur_bora@yahoo.Coom
Abstract:
There are many different techniques to improve the adhesion between carbon fiber reinforced
plastics (CFRP) which are used in aircraft primary structures. One of the most common techniques
used today is the specific surface structuring of the joining partners in order to obtain mechanical
interlocking. In this study, laser induced surface structuring effect on adhesion strength of
CFRP/CFRP joints was investigated by single lap shear tests. Micro-holes were created by CO2 laser
machine with different configurations in x and y axis for the best mechanical interlocking effect on
the adhesive bonding. First of all, preliminary studies were done to investigate the effect of micro
hole numbers (309, 625 and 914) on the adhesive strength of CFRP/CFRP joints according to ASTM
D5868-01 standard with 60 kN DARTEC universal test machine. After determining the optimum
micro hole number (309), the main part of the study was done according to micro hole formations
(frame and box) on the adhesive bonding strength of the CFRP/CFRP joints. From single lap shear
tests, it was determined that micro-hole structuring has significant effect on mechanical interlocking
for adhesive bonding of CFRP/CFRP joints. Results showed that the shear strength of CFRP/CFRP
joints gained maximum values with 309 micro holes and frame type micro hole formation. After
mechanical tests, damage mechanisms were observed by using digital camera. It was found that
fiber tear failure and cohesive failure were the dominant failure mechanisms.
Keywords: Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics, Adhesive Bonding, Laser Surface Treatment, Mechanical
Interlocking
*This work is supported by TUBITAK, "The Scientific and Technological Research Supporting Program 1001"
contact number of 215M77511
EFFECTS OF THE LASER WAVELENGTH ON THE PRE-TREATMENT OF
CARBON FIBER-REINFORCED PLASTICS FOR ADHESIVE JOINT
Onur Cobana*, Yalcin Erdogana, Erhan Akmana, Mustafa Ozgur Boraa, Belgin Genc Oztopraka,
Arif Demira
aKocaeli University
*onur_coban@yahoo.com
Abstract:
To improve the adhesive bonding performance of the carbon fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRP) pretreatment is the indispensable process. In addition to many conventional methods, laser ablation
has emerged as an alternative method because of the many advantages it provides during the pretreatment of the CFRP surfaces. The ability to control the energy transferred to the material with
laser with high precision, makes the lasers prominent in material processing. While the parameters
such as wavelength, pulse duration, pulse energy, repetition rate provide energy control, it also
causes differentiation in the ablation mechanism. In the study, pre-treatment of the CFRP surfaces
were realized using two different laser wavelengths and the pulse durations. While, one of them is in
the ultraviolet (UV) region and causes photo-chemical ablation, the other one is in the infrared
region and causes photo-thermal ablation. After the surface treatment, adhesive strength of bonded
CFRP samples was determined by single lap shear tests according to ASTM D5868-01. From test
results, it is found that the ablation mechanism strongly affects the strength of adhesive bonding of
CFRP.
Keywords: Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics, Adhesive Bonding, Laser Surface Treatment
*This work is supported by TUBITAK, "The Scientific and Technological Research Supporting Program 1001"
contact number of 215M77512
NOVEL SURFACE STRUCTURING OF CFRPS FOR ADHESIVE BONDING:
EFFECT OF LASER INDUCED SCRIBE PATTERN ANGLE ON ADHESION
STRENGTH
Onur Cobana*, Erhan Akmana, Mustafa Ozgur Boraa, Belgin Genc Oztopraka, Arif Demira
aKocaeli University
*onur_coban@yahoo.com
Abstract:
Adhesive bonding of carbon fiber-reinforced plastics (CFRP) requires surface pre-treatment. In
general; laser treatment is performed to clear the residues of release agents on the CFRPs.
Additionally some studies dealt with the effect of laser ablation induced roughness on adhesion
strength according to the mechanical adhesion mechanism. All these laser surface treatments
focused on random surface roughening effect on adhesion strength. Therefore, in this study laser
induced scribe patterns were regularly oriented with varied scribe angles (0°, 15°, 30°, 45°, 60°, 75°
and 90°) on the CFRP samples to investigate its effect on mechanical interlocking mechanism in the
adhesive bonding. Scribe patterned CFRP samples with various scribe angles have been adhesively
bonded and then adhesive strength of bonded CFRP samples was determined by single lap shear
tests according to ASTM D5868-01. After destructive tests, damaged surfaces were analyzed for the
failure mechanisms with optical microscope. It is found that the strength of adhesive bonding
depends on the laser induced scribe pattern angle from the test results. Additionally it is worthy to
say that regularly oriented laser scribe patterns with a 45° angle leads maximum adhesion strength
for CFRP bonding. This work was supported by TUBITAK, ‘The Scientific and Technological Research
Supporting Program 1001’ under contact number [215M775].
Keywords: Carbon Fiber Reinforced Plastics, Adhesive Bonding, Laser Surface Treatment, Mechanical
Interlocking
*This work is supported by TUBITAK, "The Scientific and Technological Research Supporting Program 1001"
contact number of 215M77513
COMPARISON OF THE MULTI LINE ANCHORED SYSTEM AND BORED
PILE SYSTEM UNDER EARTHQUAKE EFFECT
Pinar Sezin Ozturk Kardogana*, Mehmet Inanc Onurb
aGazi University
bAnadolu University
*sezinozturk@gazi.edu.tr
Abstract:
In the recent times, using the excavation support systems is very important role for deep
excavations. In the excavation support system design, the multi line anchored systems and the fixed
end moment pile supported systems are frequently preferred. In this study, behavior of the
anchored supported systems and the fixed end moment pile supported systems is modelled under
the seismic load. For this purpose; firstly, the depth of excavation is chosen as 15 meters and then,
safe design parameters are determined both two system. The essential number of anchors and the
length of anchors were calculated in the anchored supported systems. The diameter and length of
pile in the fixed end moment pile supported systems are designated. Stresses and deformations
were determined by the Plaxis program for both systems. After the static analyzes were completed,
two ground motion records were used to understand the behavior of the supported systems under
the seismic load by using Plaxis program. It has been observed that the multi line anchored system
gives smaller displacements under earthquake loading.
Keywords: Deep Excavations, Earthquake Effects, Plaxis.
*This study was supported under the 1705F331 project, which was accepted by Anadolu University Scientific
Research Commision14
EFFECT OF REACTION CONDITIONS AND REACTOR TYPES ON THE USE
OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES TO PREPARE CALCIUM CARBONATES FOR
CO2 SEQUESTRATION BY AQUEOUS MINERAL CARBONATION PROCESS
Mahmut Altinera*
aCukurova University
*maltiner@cu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Industrial wastes have been used as a feedstock material for CO2 sequestration due to its chemical
composition and carbon dioxide (CO2) gas is the one of the most important greenhouse gases that
leads to an increase in the temperature of the world because of the increasing its concentration in
the atmosphere. The mixture of industrial waste and CO2 to prepare calcium carbonate particles
(PCC) at various experimental conditions can be good option for the capture of CO2. However, the
morphological properties of PCC particles are strongly controlled by production parameters such as;
temperature, stirring speed, solid-to-liquid ratio, use of solvent and additive, calcium concentration
and etc.
Therefore, this study was used an aqueous mineral carbonation process to prepare synthetic calcium
carbonate particles that is of highly demand in many industrial areas. Calcium carbide slag and
desulfurization gypsum wastes were used as feedstock materials in this study. Two different types of
mineral carbonation reactor were used. The effect of solid-to-liquid ratio, CO2 pressure, and
reaction time on the production of PCC in detail was investigated. XRF, XRD, and SEM analyses were
performed to evaluate the properties of each obtained PCC product. Each obtained PCC from
calcium carbide slag was identified as calcite in all cases, whereas the mixture of vaterite and calcite
crystals were obtained from desulfurization gypsum. The morphology of PCC were dependent on the
production conditions. The study shows that the use of industrial waste not only can be called as an
environmentally friendly but also provides a good option to prepare PCC with a high purity.
Keywords: Mineral Carbonation; Desulfurization Gpysum; Calcium Carbide Slag; Calcite; Vaterite
*15
MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF WOOD PLASTIC NANOCOMPOSITES
REINFORCED WITH SEPIOLITE NANO FIBERS (SNFS)
Alperen Kaymakcia*, Emre Birincia, Nadir Ayrlmisb
aKastamonu University
bIstanbul University
*akaymakci@kastamonu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Effect of sepiolite nano fibers (SNFs) on some mechanical properties of wood polymer
nanocomposites was investigated. To meet this objective, pine wood flour, polypropylene (PP) with
coupling agent (MAPP), and SNF (0, 1, 3, 5, 7 wt%) were compounded in a twin screw co-rotating
extruder. The mass ratio of the wood flour to PP was 50/50 (w/w) in all compounds. Test specimens
were produced using injection molding machine from the pellets. The flexural and tensile properties
of the wood polymer nanocomposites decreased with increasing with content of the SNFs (from 1 to
7 wt%) and MAPP (3 wt%).
Keywords: Wood, Plastic, Nano, Composites, Snf
*16
PRODUCTION OF ACTIVATED CARBON FROM SPENT MUSHROOM
COMPOST
Seyda Karadireka*, Hikmet Okkaya
aYalova University
*seyda.karadirek@yalova.edu.tr
Abstract:
Activated carbon is a well-recognized porous material with high specific surface area and it has
various utilization areas such as adsorbents, catalysts, catalyst supports, gases storage materials,
electrodes etc. Activated carbon is usually obtained from fossil fuel generated hydrocarbons,
renewable biomasses and wood or agricultural wastes by physical and chemical activation methods.
Chemical activation is mostly preferred to physical activation because of various advantages such as
lower process temperature, higher yield, cheaper production cost, higher specific surface area and
single step process. The most important parameters of activated carbon production by chemical
activation method are temperature, impregnant ratio, activation time, type of activating agent and
precursor. The type of the precursor to be used in production process significantly effects the yield
and specific surface area of the activated carbon. By the developing concern in the economical and
efficient activated carbon production, new biomass wastes have been searching out as precursor for
activated carbon production. In the present study, spent compost of oyster mushroom was chosen
as a low cost, abundant and accessible precursor source. Also, no information has been given on the
activation process of spent oyster mushroom compost. The main objective of the present work is to
produce activated carbon from spent mushroom compost. In this study, we report the result of
systematic study of the effects of activation temperature, impregnant ratio and activation time on
the total production yield as well as on the methylene blue adsorption capacity of the activated
carbons produced from spent mushroom compost.
Keywords: Activated Carbon, Spent Mushroom Compost, Methylene Blue Adsorption, Chemical
Activation
*17
COMPARISON OF COLOR VALUES OF POLYESTER FABRICS WOVEN
FROM CONVANTIONAL AND MICROFILAMENT YARNS
Halil Ibrahim Icoglua*, Hatice Kubra Kaynaka
aGaziantep University
*icoglu@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
Polyester fiber is the most used synthetic fiber in clothing industry due to its high performance
properties, low cost, etc. One of the important parameters which directly affect performance of
fabrics is yarn density. Microfilaments, can be defined as a filament finer than 1 dtex or 1 Denier, are
commonly used for their important performance properties. In addition to performance properties,
color is another important dimension for customers in clothing sector. In this study, determination
and comparison of color properties of polyester Sateen dyed fabrics woven from conventional and
microfilaments with different weft sett values is aimed. 5 end Sateen polyester woven fabrics with
different weft yarns of 3 different filament fineness values (0.33 dtex, 0.76 dtex, 3.05 dtex) and three
different weft sett values (45 wefts/cm, 47 wefts/cm and 49 wefts/cm) were dyed with a disperse
blue dye by exhaust dyeing method in three different depth of shades (0.5% owf, 1.5% owf, 3% owf)
at 130 ? in the same bath. Color measurement was carried out using a reflectance
spectrophotometer (Datacolor 650) under illuminant D65/10º standard observer with the specular
component included. The average of four measurement for each fabric were taken by rotating 90º
clockwise after each measurement. For all dyed samples, CIELAB coordinates (L*, a*, b*, C*, h), total
color difference (?E*) and K/S values were determined according to the reflectance values by the
software of the spectrophotometer. K/S values were recorded at wavelength of maximum
absorption. It is observed that L* values decrease and K/S values increase when filament fineness
values decrease. It is also seen that ?E* values of the fabric with 0.33 dtex microfilament are higher
than that of 0.76 dtex microfilament according to that of 3.05 dtex filament. L* and K/S values of the
fabrics with three weft sett construction are similar.
Keywords: Microfilament, Woven Fabric, Color Values, Polyester, Disperse Dye
*18
EXAMINATION OF THE EFFECT OF TEMPER PROCESS ON DUAL PHASE
STEEL
Fatih Hayata*
aKarabuk University
*fhayat@karabuk.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this study, tempering properties of galvanized coated dual phase steel sheet specimens were
investigated. Steel is widely used in automotive industry. It is important for its performance features
as a material used either for automobile body or structural pieces such as chassis and wheels. Dual
phase (DP) steel is one of them ostimportant advanced high-strength steels (AHSS). This steel has
particular characteristics such as its micro-structure and superior mechanical properties. Heat
treatment ability of dual phase steel is important because it is common used steel for automotive
industry. DP steels provide very valuable economic and technological benefits such as easy forming,
even more strength after process of forming ,low and delayed deformation osculation. Tensile
strength and ductility properties of the material were studied. According the tensile test results,
tensile strength of the steel was increase but ductility values was found close to each other. Beside
this tensile strength of the steel decreasing with tempering process and obvious yield strength on
the steel was observed.
Keywords: Dual Phase Steel, Martensite, Hardness, Tempering
Acknowledgment:
This study is a part of Project (KBÜBAP-18-YD-021) which has been supported by Karabük University.
*19
THE TENSILE AND BURSTING STRENGTH EVALUATION OF LINEAR
LOW DENSITY POLYETHYLENE (LLDPE) SPUNBOND FABRICS
Esin Sarioglua*, Hatice Kubra Kaynaka, Halil Ibrahim Celika, Deniz Vuruskanb
aGaziantep University, Engineering Faculty, Textile Engineering Department
bGaziantep University, Faculty Of Fine Arts, Department Of Fashion And Textile Design
*sarioglu@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
In the production of the spunbond nonwovens, polypropylene (PP) is the most widely used
polyolefin class polymer. There are many uses of field of PP spunbond nonwovens such as
agriculture, automotive, household, hygiene and medical, packaging etc. Polyethylene is one of the
polyolefins and spunbond nonwovens from this polymer exhibits excellent properties, particulary
hand softness and drape. Among the polyethylene group, linear low density polyethylene (LLDPE)
has advantages like as good spinnability at lower temperature required in comparison with PP.
Present study was conducted to evaluate tensile and bursting strength properties of LLDPE
spunbond nonwovens. For this purpose, LLDPE spunbond nonwovens were produced at different
grams per meter (40 gsm, 50 gsm, 60 gsm, 80 gsm and 100 gsm). The main purpose of this study is to
determine the tensile and bursting strength properties and investigate of alternative use possibilities
instead of PP in the medical textile sector. Tensile and bursting strength tests were performed
according to the wet and dry form of the spunbond nonwovens. SPSS 22 package program was used
in order to determine the effect of the weight on these properties at 95% confidence interval.
Keywords: Linear Low Density Polyethylene, Bursting And Tensile Properties, Spunbond, Nonwoven.
*20
BLENDED OF NEW GENERATION REGENERATED CELLULOSIC FIBERS
WITH POLYESTER AND COTTON: THEREOF KNITTED FABRICS AIR
PERMEABILITY
Deniz Vuruskana*, Esin Sarioglub
aGaziantep University, Faculty Of Fine Arts, Department Of Fashion And Textile Design
bGaziantep University Textile Engineering Department
*vuruskan@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
The scope of this study is about the investigation on the air permeability of blended knitted fabrics
of new generation regenerated cellulosic fibers with polyester and cotton, individually. Viloft®,
ProModal® and bamboo were chosen as regenerated cellulosic fibers in order to evaluate their own
functional properties. These fibers were blended with most commercially used fibers as cotton and
polyester at different ratios as 67%/33% -%50/50% and 33%/67% to produce 19.7 tex ring spun
yarns. Furthermore, 100% regenerated fibers, %100 cotton and 100% polyester ring spun yarns were
also manufactured for comparison the differences. Blending of regenerated/cotton and
regenerated/polyester yarns are preferred in the production of knitted fabrics so all yarn samples
obtained from these yarns were knitted as single jersey at the same production parameters. The
permeability of fabric to air tests were performed in accordance with the related standard at 100 Pa
pressure drop by using 20 cm2 test surface area. Variance analysis was carried out using SPSS 22
statistical package program to put forward the whether there was an effect of regenerated type
(Viloft®, ProModal® and bamboo), blend type (cotton and polyester) and blend ratio (100%,
67%/33% -%50/50% and 33%/67%) on air permeability of fabrics at 95% confidence interval or not.
As a consequence, it was determined that these parameters have statistically significance on air
permeability of single jersey fabrics.
Keywords: Viloft®, Promodal® ,Bamboo, Ring Spun Yarn, Knitted Fabric
*21
TECHNICAL AND ECONOMICAL APPROACHES IN DESIGNING OF
ANTIFOAMING EMULSIONS FOR LEATHER AND TEXTILE INDUSTRY
Bahri Basarana*, Ahmet Aslana, Tayfun Barisika
aEge University
*bahri.basaran@gmail.com
Abstract:
A foam is a substance formed by trapping pockets of gas within a liquid or solid phase and a
collection of tiny bubbles formed on the surface of a liquid by agitation. The foams, one of the main
functional properties of surfactants, which are widely used because of their outstanding capability of
influencing the properties of surfaces and interfaces, may be desirable or undesirable in many
industrial applications. Sometimes foam is exigible and makes an important contribution to product
performance, for example in washing and cleaning. However; in many industrial applications,
excessive foaming might create serious drawbacks and demolishes the processes and therefore
needs to be prevented.
Leather beamhouse and textile finishing steps are the process series where emulsion and dispersion
based applications in which surfactants are used extensively. In this research the formation and the
effects of macro and micro foams arised in some physicochemical applications will be defined and
various problems come out by the agitation with surfactants in aqueous media will be specified. The
effect of antifoaming agents will be generalized in the viewpoint of causing the rupture of the air
bubbles thereby; the newly developed prototypes will be reviewed. The economical and technical
value of the antifoaming agents as per the effectivity will be evaluated.
Keywords: Antifoam, Foam, Leather.
*22
IOT AND ARDUINO BASED MOBILE ACCESSIBLE SMART PARKING
SYSTEM
Fatih Kayaalpa*, Sultan Zavraka, Huseyin Bodura, Murat Oflezera
aDuzce University
*fatihkayaalp@duzce.edu.tr
Abstract:
Because of the many facilities provided by the use of the vehicles, many people prefer to buy and
use their own cars today. This results a great number of cars registered to traffic both in Turkey and
the world. Although there are many facilities provided by vehicles, many problems arise because of
the large number of vehicles in traffic such as increasing the carbon emissions, triggering global
warming, time loss due to traffic congestion, stress on drivers, vital and financial losses caused by
accidents. Because of these problems, many researchers have focused on this area with many
studies.
The Internet of Things (IOT), which has emerged in recent years as a branch of the field of computer
engineering, also contributes to the solution of some of these problems, especially by applications
like smart homes or smart cities.
The presented work also describes a Smart Parking System, which can be considered as a smart city
application, using IOT, Arduino, Mobile platform and Cloud technologies together. With this solution,
it is contributed to the find free parking space locally in the parking lot for the drivers. Besides that,
the parking area can be accessed and monitored on the internet via mobile applications by drivers
and the parking lots can be reserved before accessing the parking area. The implemented system
results as saving time and fuel, decreasing the traffic congestion caused by the vehicles during the
time for searching parking place, simplifying the management of parking area.
Keywords: Iot, Arduino, Mobile, Smart Parking System, Cloud
*This study is supported by Scientific Activities Support Program of Duzce University23
EFFECT OF CARBON BLACK ON ELECTRICAL RAPID CURING OF
CONCRETE
Tayfun Uygunoglua*, Baris Simsekb, Emriye Cinara
aAfyon Kocatepe University
*uygunoglu@gmail.com
Abstract:
Depending upon the hydration time, accelerated cure at the buildings in which ready mixed concrete
used is important in terms of the project’s predicted time since concrete compressive strength
reaches the target level in a short time. Electrically conductive concrete (ECC) is a category of
concrete containing electrically conductive components to attain stable and high electrical
conductivity for rapid curing of concrete. In this study, carbon black was substituted in concrete at
different rates (1%, 2%, 3%) and effects on electrical curing were investigated. In experiments, 10 x
10 x 30 cm moulds have been used. Different combinations of stress intensity (0V, 35V, 45V 60V and
80 V) have been used on mixtures for 24 h by AC power-supply. The measurements have been done
at room temperature. Electrical cure and hydration time of the specimens with electric current
application have been investigated. It has been observed that hydration accelerates with increasing
stress value, and the temperatures received were increased. With the increase of the carbon black
using ratio in concretes, the shorter hydration time and higher curing temperature were observed.
Keywords: Electrical Cure, Carbon Black, Hydration Time
*24
MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF EPOXY BASED POLYMER COMPOSITES
WITH FLY ASH AND FURNACE SLAG
Tayfun Uygunoglua*, Ibrahim Gunesa
aAfyon Kocatepe University
*uygunoglu@gmail.com
Abstract:
Polymer matrix composites are gaining in popularity because of they have symmetrical and balanced
material properties, production and use due to the ease of construction, aerospace and automotive
structures for buildings. In addition, they do not conduct electricity and heat. Today, one of the new
polymeric materials are epoxy based floor coating materials field. Epoxy resins are the most
commonly used thermoset plastic in polymer matrix composites. Epoxy resins are a family of
thermoset plastic materials which do not give off reaction products when they cure and so have low
cure shrinkage. They also have good adhesion to other materials, good chemical and environmental
resistance, good chemical properties and good insulating properties. This paper proposal has been
prepared to investigate the use fly ash and blast furnace slag that largely in the form of waste
creates environmental pollution with epoxy floor coating material due to advantage of these
properties of polymers. Mechanical properties of polymer-based floor coating materials that was
produced using waste mineral additives was characterized. For this purpose, the compressive-tensile
strength, modulus of elasticity, stress-strain behavior and energy to break was determined as
mechanical tests. Environmental pollution will be reduced by evaluation of the fly ash and furnace
slag wastes and the space to be filled in the literature by making the characterization of existing
products.
Keywords: Mechanical Properties, Polymer, Fly Ash, Furnace Slag.
*25
PHOTOCATALYTIC DEGRADATION OF REACTIVE BLUE 4 USING TIO2
NANOPARTICLE-BORON INDUSTRY WASTE
Necip Atara*, Mehmet Lutfi Yolab, Ceren Karamana, Alime Yilmaza
aPamukkale University, Faculty Of Engineering, Department Of Chemical Engineering
bIskenderun Technical University, Faculty Of Engineering And Natural Sciences, Department
Of Biomedical Engineering
*necipatar@gmail.com
Abstract:
The boron ores are important natural resources in Turkey. During boron enrichment process, a large
amount of boron ore waste is discharged into waste dams from the boron plants. The waste dams
containing boron minerals can cause a big environmental problem. Using industrial solid wastes for
adsorption or catalyst support has been proposed in recent years for materials recycling and
utilization. A novel composite containing TiO2 nanoparticles (TiO2NPs) and boron waste (BW) was
synthesized and tested in adsorption and photocatalysis to remove Reactive Blue 4 (RB4) from
aqueous solution. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS),
and X-ray diffraction patterns (XRD) showed the formation of metal TiO2NPs on BW. The BET surface
area increased after intercalation of TiO2NPs onto BW. TiO2-BW was found to be a good
nanomaterial for RB4 adsorption. The effects of operating variables such as initial dye concentration,
pH and contact time in adsorption were studied. The kinetics, isotherm and thermodynamic
parameters for the removal of the RB4 were also investigated. In addition, TiO2-BW also shows high
photocatalytic activity for degradation of RB4 from aqueous solution. The combination of adsorption
and photocatalysis using TiO2-BW is demonstrated as a more effective technique for removal of
dyes from aqueous solution.
Keywords: Photocatalysis, Tio2 Nanoparticles, Boron Waste, Kinetics
*26
AG@AU NANOPARTICLES ANCHORED CALIX[4]ARENE
FUNCTIONALIZED GRAPHENE QUANTUM DOTS: SIMULTANEOUS
DETERMINATION OF L-TYROSINE AND L-TRYPTOPHAN
Necip Atara*, Mehmet Lutfi Yolab, Alime Yilmaza, Ceren Karamana
APamukkale University, Faculty Of Engineering, Department Of Chemical Engineering,
Denizli, Turkey
bIskenderun Technical University, Faculty Of Engineering And Natural Sciences, Department
Of Biomedical Engineering
*necipatar@gmail.com
Abstract:
Amino acids are known as precursors for various significant biological substances. l-Trp is one of the
most important amino acids and found in natural proteins, which is widely used in the food industry
as an antioxidant and in the pharmaceutical industry as a biomarker In addition, it plays an
important role in several biological processes. l-Tyr is also a kind of essential amino acid and
indispensable for human to establish and maintain nutritional balance. The lack of l-Tyr may lead to
albinism, alkaptonuria, depression, and other psychological diseases, while an overdose of l-Tyr
could cause the increase of sister chromatid exchange. Therefore, it is significant to develop a
simple, accurate, rapid and inexpensive sensor for the determination of l-Trp and l-Tyr. In this report,
ruthenium nanoparticles (Ag@AuNPs) and calix[4]arene (C4A) were synthesized and grafted onto
the surface of reduced graphene oxide (GQDs) sheets (Ag@AuNPs/C4A/GQDs). The morphologies of
GQDs and Ag@AuNPs/C4A/GQDs composite were characterized by transmission electron
microscope, scanning electron microscope, atomic force microscope and x-ray photoelectron
spectroscopy. The electrochemical experiments were performed by cyclic voltammetry,
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy and square wave voltammetry. The simultaneous
determination of l-tyrosine and l-tryptophan was performed on glassy carbon electrode (GCE)
modified with Ag@AuNPs/C4A/GQDs. The voltammetric sensor was applied to milk samples with
good selectivity and recovery.
Keywords: Calix[4]Arene, Graphene Quantum Dots; Nanoparticles, Determination
*27
INVESTIGATION OF WICKABILITY PROPERTIES OF MICROFILAMENT
WOVEN FABRICS
Hatice Kubra Kaynaka*, Osman Babaarslanb, Esin Sarioglua, Halil Ibrahim Celika
aGaziantep University
bCukurova University
*tuluce@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
Synthetic fiber industry has been enforced to make developments due to the increasing
performance demands from textile products. One of the most important developments in synthetic
fiber industry, is absolutely producing extremely fine filaments which are named as microfilaments.
A microfilament can be defined as a filament finer than 1 dtex or 1 Denier and 1dtex polyester fiber
has a fiber diameter of approximately 10 µm. It is an important factor of having a good
thermophysiological comfort for textile fabrics for a comfortable and healthy use of textiles. As an
aspect of thermophysiological comfort, transferring the liquid perspiration to the outer surface of
the garment is an important issue. Wicking can be defined as spontaneous flow of the liquid in a
porous substance, driven by capillary forces. Extremely fine filaments of microfilament fabrics
provide better capillary forces and enhance the wickability of the fabrics. In this study, it is aimed to
determine the effects of filament fineness, weft sett and weave type on the wickability of filament
woven fabrics. For this aim, 3/2 Twill and 5 end Sateen polyester filament woven fabrics with
different weft yarns of 3 different filament finenesses (0.33 dtex, 0.76 dtex, 3.05 dtex) and two
different weft sett values (45 wefts/cm and 47 wefts/cm) were tested according to AATCC Test
Method 197-2011, Vertical Wicking of Textiles. For comparison of the wickability of sample fabrics,
the wetted height of the samples for different time intervals are determined. In order to understand
the statistical importance of filament fineness, weft sett and weave type on wickability, ANOVA was
performed. For this aim the statistical software package SPSS 21.0 was used to interpret the
experimental data. All test results were assessed at 95% confidence interval.
Keywords: Microfilament, Woven Fabric, Wickability, Liquid Transport, Weave, Filament Linear
Density
*28
BURSTING STRENGTH OF KNITTED FABRICS PRODUCED FROM OF
POLYBUTYLENE TEREPHTHALATE (PBT) YARNS WITH DIFFERENT
FALSE-TWIST TEXTURING PARAMETERS
Halil Ibrahim Celika*, Esin Sarioglua, Hatice Kubra Kaynaka
aGaziantep University
*hcelik@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
Polybuthylene Terephtalate (PBT) is a semi-aromatic polyester. It provides advantages such as high
elasticity, ease of dyeing at lower temperatures. Due to their especially high elasticity property, PBT
fibers become popular in textile industry with an increasing rate and used for the production of
many textile applications such as; underwear, sport cloths, carpet piles, hosiery etc. In order to
introduce more softness, bulk, warmth and extensibility, synthetic continuous filaments yarns are
applied some mechanical, thermal or chemical processes. These processes are called as texturing.
The texturing process parameters have significant effect on physical and mechanical characteristics
of the yarn. Since the yarn properties have important influence on fabric performance, it is
considered that the texturing parameters may affect the fabric mechanical properties. In this study,
it is intended to reveal the effect of temperature of heating zone and draw ratio on knitted fabric
bursting strength performance. For this aim, partially oriented (POY) 110 dtex/24 filament PBT yarn
samples were applied false-twist texturing process with three different heating temperatures (175,
200, 225 0C) and three different draw ratios (1.2, 1.4, 1.6). Totally, 9 false-twist textured stretch PBT
yarn samples were produced. Then, knitted fabric samples were prepared under same conditions
and with same fabric structure parameters. In order to obtain bursting strength and bursting
distension values, the knitted fabric samples were applied bursting strength test in accordance with
BS EN ISO 13938-1:1999 standard. The effect of texturing parameters (heating zone temperatures,
draw ratios) on knitted fabric bursting strength was investigated by performing ANOVA. The
statistical software package SPSS 21.0 was used to interpret the experimental data. All test results
were assessed at 95% confidence interval.
Keywords: Bursting Strength, Bursting Distension, Polybuthylene Terephtalate, Texturing, FalseTwist
*29
FINITE ELEMENT ANALYSIS APPLICATIONS TO TEXTILE MATERIALS: A
CASE STUDY ON PET YARN MECHANICAL PROPERTIES
Burak Sahina, Halil Ibrahim Celikb*, Hatice Kubra Kaynakb
aMechanical Engineering, Gaziantep University
bTextile Engineering, Gaziantep University
*hcelik@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
Finite element analysis (FEA) is a numerical solution method for engineering problems. It predicts
system behavior for real working and environment conditions. FEA is an effective tool to predict the
behavior of products affected by many influence namely mechanical stress, fatigue, thermal effects
and motion. Textile materials such as fiber, yarn and fabric are supposed to different kinds of loading
during their usage. Modeling of these products is vital to have enough knowledge about their
material characteristics and performance evaluation. But modeling of mechanical properties of
textile material is difficult by FEA due to following reasons:
? Yarn is not a solid material. It consists of fibers
? The fibers inside the yarn structure have motion capability and elasticity
? Each yarn has different packing density i.e. the spaces between fibers forming yarn structure
? The yarns that compose the fabric structure have interaction between each other
? Fabric structure has high elasticity and flexibility
Some studies on modeling of impact and tensile properties of textile materials can be reached in
literature. In this study, different FEA studies for textile materials in literature are reviewed. In
addition, mechanical properties (breaking strength and elongation) of polyester yarn, one of the
widely used synthetic fibers, are investigated by finite element modeling as a case study.
Keywords: Finite Element Analysis (FEA), Polyester, Yarn, Breaking Strength, Breaking Elongation
*30
INVESTIGATION OF MICROSTRUCTURAL AND MECHANICAL
PROPERTIES OF GRAPHENE REINFORCED AL-4CU COMPOSITES
Cantekin Kaykilarlia*, Burak Kucukelyasb, Nazli Akcamlib, Deniz Uzunsoyb, Nurhan Cansevera
aYildiz Technical University
bBursa Technical University
*cantekin.kaykilarli@btu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Al-Cu alloys have been used in many industries such as aerospace and automotive due to their low
density and high mechanical strength. Graphene has outstanding properties and it is a potential
candidate as reinforcement additive for metal matrix composites to obtain enhanced mechanical
properties. In the present study, Al-4Cu alloy powders were produced from elemental powders of Al
and Cu via mechanical alloying technique. Also, graphene additives were produced via electric arc
discharge method in our laboratories by previously optimized process parameters as few-layered
platelets. Powder metallurgy routes were used to produce composites having different amount of
graphene as 0 0.25 0.50 and 1 wt%. The starting powders of Al, Cu and graphene were mechanically
alloyed for different durations up to 9 h. The characterization of mechanically alloyed powders were
performed using differential thermal analysis (DTA), X-Ray diffraction (XRD) and Scanning Electron
Microscopy (SEM) techniques. Mechanical alloyed powders uniaxially pressed at 400 MPa and
sintered at 590 °C for 3 hours under Ar atmosphere. Structural and physical properties of sintered
samples were investigated through Archimedes density, SEM, XRD techniques. Additionally,
mechanical characterization of bulk sample were performed in terms of hardness and reciprocating
wear tests. Mechanical alloying duration and graphene amount were optimized according to the
characterization results of the produced Al-4Cu composites reinforced with graphene.
Keywords: Al-4Cu Alloys, Graphene Nano Platelets, Powder Metallurgy, Microstructure, Mechanical
Properties
*31
PROCESSING AND CHARACTERIZATION OF EQUATOMIC FENICU
ALLOYS VIA MECHANICAL ALLOYING
Burak Kucukelyasa, Cantekin Kaykilarlib*, Serzat Safaltinc, Nazli Akcamlia, Deniz Uzunsoya,
Sebahattin Gurmenc
aBursa Technical University
bYildiz Technical University
cIstanbul Technical University
*cantekin.kaykilarli@btu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Nowadays, nanoparticle synthesis is the intensively research area due to the extraordinary
properties of nano-sized particles. Mechanical alloying (MA) is a solid-state and room-temperature
powder processing technique. Mechanical alloying method enables to obtain fine microstructures
with tailored set of properties which are hard to obtain via conventional processing techniques. In
this study, crystalline ternary FeNiCu alloy nanoparticles are prepared via mechanical alloying in a
planetary ball mill. The high purity (> 99.7%) elemental starting powders with <45 µm particle size
are utilized in (33.3 at.%) equatomic percentages. Milling operations are conducted with tungsten
carbide (WC) vial and balls (5 mm in diameter) for 250 rpm during 54 hours. The ball-to-powder
weight ratio is 10:1. The synthesized powders are characterized through X-ray diffraction (XRD),
Particle size analysis (PSA), Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy dispersive spectroscopy
(EDS) techniques. The crystallite size and lattice strain values of alloys are calculated by Scherrer’s
formula based on XRD results.
Keywords: Fenicu Alloys, Equatomic Systems, Mechanical Alloying, Scanning Electron Microscopy, XRay Diffraction
*32
INVESTIGATION OF MICROSTRUCTURAL AND MECHANICAL
PROPERTIES OF GRAPHENE REINFORCED AL-10SI-2CU COMPOSITES
Berk Senyurta*, Cantekin Kaykilarlia, Nazli Akcamlia, Deniz Uzunsoya
Abursa Technical University
*berk.senyurt@btu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Aluminium and its alloys’ applications are limited for automotive and aerospace industries due to
their low strength and wear resistance properties. The demand for light weight and high strength
materials increased in many engineering applications. Aluminum matrix composites allow to obtain
tailored properties for the special application areas. Graphene has a strong potential to be used as
reinforcement additive for Al-matrix composites with its remarkable mechanical properties. In this
study, graphene reinforced Al-matrix composites were produced by mechanical alloying as a room–
temperature powder processing technique based on applied mechanical forces at high milling rates.
The graphene nanoplatelets (GNPs) reinforcements are produced by electric arc discharge method in
our laboratories with few-layered structure and high purity. The Al-alloy powders (with 10 wt.% of Si
and 2 wt.% of Cu) and GNP reinforced composite powders are obtained from the elemental powders
of Al, Si and Cu by mechanical alloying up to 9 hours. The characterization of the synthesized
powders are made by differential thermal analysis (DTA), X Ray Diffraction (XRD), Scanning Electron
Microscopy (SEM) and particle size analysis (PSA) techniques. Moreover, the mechanically alloyed
powders are transferred into bulk structures by pressureless sintering process through uniaxial
pressing at 500 MPa and sintering at 500 °C for 4 h under Ar atmosphere. The characterization of
sintered samples are performed in terms of physical, mechanical and microstructural properties.
Accordingly, the Archimeds’ density, XRD, optical microscope (OM), SEM, microhardness test and
reciprocating wear test are applied. As a result, the optimal values of mechanical alloying duration
and graphene amount for GNP reinforced Al-10Si-2Cu composites are determined in the light of
characterization results as important process parameters.
Keywords: Al Matrix Composites, Graphene Nano Platelets, Powder Metallurgy, Microstructure,
Mechanical Properties.
*33
EFFECTS ON HAY YIELD OF COMMON VETCH (VICIA SATIVA L.) AND
TRITICALE (X TRITICOSECALE WITTMACK.) MIXTURE RATES IN
BINGOL CONDITIONS
Kagan Koktena*, Hariwan Abdullah Yousifb, Mahmut Kaplanc, Halit Tutara
aBingol University
bDuhok University
cErciyes University
*kahafe1974@yahoo.com
Abstract:
Conducted under Bingol conditions during the 2016 growing season, this study is aiming to analyze
the effect of common vetch (Vicia sativa L.) and triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack.) mixture ratios on
hay yield.
Plant materials of the study were Gorkem common vetch variety, obtained from Department of Field
Crops, Faculty of Agriculture, Dicle University, and Tacettin Bey Triticale variety, obtained from GAP
International Agricultural Research and Training Center. The research has been established as a
randomized complete block experimental design with three replications In the study; vetch stem
length, triticale plant height, green herbage yield, vetch rate in the green herbage, dry hay yield,
vetch rate in the hay and relative yield total have been analyzed. The results of variance analyses
indicated statistically significant differences among some characters (green herbage yield, vetch rate
in the green herbage, dry hay yield, vetch rate in the hay and relative yield total (P?0.01)). The
findings of the study indicated that vetch stem length of the mixtures ranged between 56.40 and
61.23 cm, triticale plant height ranged from 77.60 to 87.73 cm, green herbage yield from 769.78 to
1090.67 kg/da, vetch rate in green herbage from 6.51% to 100.00%, dry hay yield from 290.83 to
644.24 kg/da, vetch rate in hay from 11.01 to 100.00% and relative yield total from 1.00 to 1.40.
Based on the findings of this study, we can conclude that a mixture ratio of 20% vetch + 80% triticale
may be the best mixture ratio in terms of highest dry hay yield and relative yield total for Bingol and
other similar ecological regions.
Keywords: Common Vetch (Vicia Sativa L.), Triticale (X Triticosecale Wittmack.), Mixture, Hay Yield
*34
DETERMINATION OF SILAGE POTENTIAL AND NUTRITIONAL VALUES
OF SOME TRITICALE CULTIVARS
Mahmut Kaplana, Kagan Koktenb*, Yusuf Murat Kardesa, Selim Ozdemirb
Aerciyes University
Bbingol University
*kahafe1974@yahoo.com
Abstract:
The study was conducted to determine silage potential and chemical composition of triticale
cultivars to be used for silage. Ten different cultivars of triticale (Umran Hanim, Melez, Mehmet Bey,
Tatlicak 97, Ayse Hanim, Alper Bey, Mikham 2002, Presto, Tacettin Bey, Karma) were used as plant
material in the study. Experiment was carried out in randomized block design with 3 replications
during the growing seasons of 2015-2016 under Elazig conditions. The experimental plots were
harvested at dough stage of the plants. The plants were chopped in 2.5-3 cm pieces, filled and sealed
in 2 kg deflated vacuum bags. Then the samples were preserved in dark for 60 days. Sample bags
were opened and silage were chemical composition were investigated.
Results revealed that dry matter content of the silage varied between 36.01% and 42.19%, crude
protein content (CP) between 6.36% and 8.33%, crude ash content (CA) between 6.11% and 7.21%,
neutral detergent fiber (NDF) content between 51.46% and 57.66%, acid detergent fiber (ADF)
content between 31.11% and 41.25%, pH between 4.52 and 4.78, digestibility of dry matter (DDM)
between 56.77% and 64.66%, dry matter intake (DMI) between 2.08% and 2.33%, relative feed value
(RFV) between 91.60 and 116.78, depending on the cultivars. It was concluded that all triticale
cultivars could be used as a quality silage crop for animal feeding.
Keywords: Triticale Cultivars, Silage, Chemical Composition, Relative Feed Value
*35
EFFECT OF FINAL THICKNESSES ON MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF
HOT ROLLED COIL PRODUCTS MADE OF HIGH YIELD STRENGTH
STEELS FOR COLD FORMING
Sibel Daglilara*, Aycan Aticib
aYildiz Technical University
bIsdemir A.S., 31319 Iskenderun, Hatay, Turkey.
*sdaglilar@gmail.com
Abstract:
In this study, the relationship between thickness and mechanical properties of hot rolled coil
products made of high yield strength steels for cold forming (EN 10149-2, S600MC), was
investigated. In experiments, slab dimensions were 225mm*1255mm*12000mm. As rolling
conditions, FM (Finishing Mill) entrance temperature was 950°C, FM exit temperature was 820°C,
and coiling temperature was 520°C. The chemical compositions of the steel samples were prepared
as standard and the sum of Nb, V and Ti were to be lower than 0,22%. Four different thicknesses (12,
10, 4, 3 mm) were used. The mechanical properties aimed were, yield strength min 600 N/mm2,
tensile strength 650 - 820 N/mm2 and elongation min 13%. According to EN standard for thicknesses
higher than 8 mm the minimum yield strength can be 20 N/mm2 lower. The change of mechanical
properties related to thickness differences were searched. The study indicated that, at the same
chemical compositions and different reduction rates, thicker products have lower yield strengths.
Keywords: Chemical Composition, Hot Rolling, High Yield Strength, Mechanical Properties,
Thermomechanical Rolling, Coiling Temperature
*36
INVESTIGATION OF FLAVONOL TRANSPORTATION MECHANISM BY
USING POLYMER INCLUSION MEMBRANE
Alime Yilmaza*, Necip Atara, Mehmet Lutfi Yolab
aPamukkale University
bIskenderun Technical University
*alimey@pau.edu.tr
Abstract:
Flavonoids are a secondary plant phenolics class which have antioxidant and chelating properties.
They are the most abundant in fruits, vegetables, wines, tea. Flavonols are the main class of
flavonoids; the most common flovonols are quercetin, kaempferol and myricetin. In this study,
synthetic quercetin flavonol was transported by using polymer inclusion membrane. Polymer
inclusion membranes composed of cellulose tri acetate (CTA) base polymer material , 2-NPOE
plasticizer material and Aliquat 336 (TOMA-C) carrier material. For the most efficient quercetin
transportation; membrane composition was optimized by determination amount of each
component. pH of acceptor phase, acid type and quercetin concentration for donor phase effects
were investigated for obtaining optimum transportation conditions. Under optimum transportation
conditions; reaction order of transportation was determined. According to reaction mechanism k
(rate constant), J (flux), P (permeability coefficient) and D (diffusion coefficient) values were
calculated. Within optimum conditions, transportation of synthetic quercetin was done with 62 %
yield.
Keywords: Polymer Inclusion Membrane, Quercetin, Separation
*37
CO-PYROLYSIS OF WASTE TYRES WITH RICE HUSK IN A FIXED BED
BATCH REACTOR
Derya Yesim Hopaa, Alime Yilmazb*, Arif Sarikayaa
aAfyon Kocatepe University
bPamukkale University
*alimey@pau.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this study, the mixtures of waste tyres and rice husk were subjected to pyrolytic conversion which
was conducted in a batch reactor at 450 ºC, with a heating rate of 10 ºC/min at inert atmosphere of
nitrogen gas with a flow rate of 1L/min. The co-pyrolysis of waste tyres with rice husk was conducted
with different weight percentages of rice husk: 0%, 25%, 50% and 75%. The effect of rice husk
addition on the liquid yield, and on the calorific value of liquid product was investigated. According
to the results of the study, it was observed that the yield and the calorific value of the liquid product
were generally reduced with increasing amounts of rice husk. The addition of 75% rice husk reduced
the liquid yield from 33%(wt.) to 21,31 %(wt.) and the calorific value from 10020 Kcal/kg to 8651
Kcal/kg. It was observed that only at 25% addition of rice husk, there was a small increase in
calorific value of pyrolytic liquid, that was from 10020 Kcal/kg to 10096 Kcal/kg. It was thought that,
the smaller amounts of rice husk addition could be better for co-pyrolysis and an experiment with
10% addition of rice husk was conducted. According to the results of this experiment, 10% addition
of rice husk increased the calorific value of pyrolytic liquid from 10020 Kcal/kg to 10281 Kcal/kg with
keeping the liquid yield constant at 33% (wt.).
Keywords: Pyrolysis, Waste Tyre, Rice Husk
*38
BEHAVIOR OF STEEL WIRE FIBRED HIGH PERFORMANCE CONCRETE
PLATES UNDER LOOSELY CLAMPED BOUNDARY CONDITIONS
Selcuk Emre Gorkema*
aErciyes University
*selcukgorkem@yahoo.com
Abstract:
Plates are flat structural members. Their thicknesses are quite smaller than other dimensions. Plates may be
classified by ratio of thickness to smaller span length as thin plate or thick plate. There are different types of
loads act on plates. These loads could be classified by their acting areas. When acting surface become smaller,
the load could be called as a concentrated load. In this study, one of the fairly known practical plate problems
were investigated, a square plate laterally loaded with a single concentrated load at midspan under all edges
clamped. Clampings were made continuously along edges. Experiment system prepared by using U140 (h=140
mm) steel profiles. Profiles perforated by 400 mm spacing along their axis of symmetry to attach to steel rods.
Plates were placed between two U140 profiles along plate edges than attached. Attachments were made only
along the axis of symmetry of profiles. Therefore small quantity of rotation could be exist along clampings and
plates having this type of side clampings could be called as loosely clamped. High performance concrete plates
containing steel wire fibres, volumetrically %0.5 and %1, constructed and tested. To observe from thick plate
to thin plate behavior, plate sizes arranged to 660x660x40 mm (40/660>1/20 thick plate) and 1080x1080x40
mm (40/1080<1/20 thin plate). Load-Deflection and Load-Strain relationships were measured. Deflection
measurements were made at 5 points in thick plates. One of them is at the midspan, others were on the
symmetry axes and far from boundaries by one-fourth of the length of plate. In thin plates, deflection
measurements were made not only ¼ length from boundaries, but also at thick plates’ measurement points to
compare deflections. In loosely clamped edges, rotations of supports at corresponding loading values were
also measured. Mechanical properties of high performance reinforced concrete and steel wire fibres were
examined. Fracture patterns of thick and thin plates were investigated. In addition to test results, plates were
modeled and analysed with finite element analysis program. Analysis results and test results were compared.
Keywords: Plate, Loosely Clamped Plate, High Performance Concrete, Steel Fibred Concrete
*This study was supported by Scientific Activities Support Program of Karadeniz Technical University39
INVESTIGATION OF MICROSTRUCTURE AND MECHANICAL,
CORROSION PROPERTIES OF ALUMINUM ALLOYS COATED WITH
NICKEL-COPPER BASED POWDER AA5754 THROUGH HIGH VELOCITY
OXYGEN FUEL POWDER SPRAYING METHOD (HVOF) WHEN
COMBINED THROUGH FRICTION STIR WELDING
Zarif Catalgola, Yavuz Akkasa, Hasan Kayab, Ramazan Samura*, Mehmet Ucarc
aMarmara University, Department Of Metallurgical And Materials Engineering
bDepartment Of Machine And Metal Technology,Asimkocabiyik Vocational School Of Higher
Education, Kocaeli University
cDepartment Of Automotive Engineering, Faculty Of Technology, Kocaeli University
*rsamur@marmara.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this study, AA5754 aluminum alloy sheets material was cut with the mechanical guillotine shears
2x100x300 mm size. The cut aluminum plate welding regions of the shears to be treated with the
friction stir welding were coated with nickel-copper based powder 100µm thick by High Velocity
Flame Spraying (HVOF).To use in friction stir welding, height-mixing tool with cone geometry, friction
with 20mm shoulder diameter and 1.8mm pin was produced through machining from hot-work tool
steel. To identify the microstructure, mechanical properties and corrosion properties of the welding
joints, after coarse and fine sanding, 1µm diamond polishing process was applied to the samples cut
with a water jet without being affected by heat. The hardness values of these samples were
calculated in a linear axis by Vickers hardness measurement method to cover the whole of the base
material and welding. The polished samples were cauterized and then their micrographs were taken
through optical microscopy and scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and EDS analyses were
performed. The resulting data were used to analyze the microstructure of joints, and mechanical and
corrosion properties.
Keywords: Ni-Copper Based Powder Coating Material Of The Welding Region, Friction Stir Welding
Process, Microstructure, Mechanical And Co
*MARMARA UNIVERSITY,BAPKO,FEN-C-YLP-120917-053940
MICROSTRUCTURAL CHARACTERIZATION AND HEAT
TREATMENTEFFECT ON PHOTOLUMINESCENCE OF
BATA2O6:SM3+PHOSPHOR
Mustafa Ilhana*, Zarif Catalgola, Seyyid Abdulkadir Ilhanb, Ramazan Samura
aDepartment Of Metallurgical And Materials Engineering, Marmara University
bDepartment Of Materials Science And Engineering, Sakarya University
*mustafa.ilhan@marmara.edu.tr
Abstract:
Trivalent samarium ion (Sm3+) doped (2.5 mol%) BaTa2O6 phosphors were sintered by solid state
reaction route at temperatures between 1150 and 1425 °C for 20 hours in order to determine
temperature effect on structural and luminescence properties. Structural and luminescence
properties of the ceramic powder samples were investigated by X–ray diffraction (XRD), scanning
electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS) and photoluminescence (PL)
analyses. In XRD analysis, while Sm3+ doped BaTa2O6 structure has single phase tetragonal tungsten
bronze (TTB) structure above 1350 °C, small amount orthorhombic BaTa2O6 phase appeared at
temperatures of 1150 and 1250 °C. SEM analysis revealed that size of Sm3+ doped BaTa2O6 grains
increased with increasing the heat treatment temperature. In the PL analysis, depending on the
increase in heat treatment temperature, the intensity of emission reached maximum at 1425 °C.
Increase of the emission intensities of 4G5/2›6H5/2 and 4G5/2›6H7/2 transitions may have been
attributed to the improving crystallinity and growing symmetry, with the increasing of temperature.
Keywords: XRD; SEM; Heat Treatment; Photoluminescence; Rare Earth Ion
*The conducted study was economically supported by Scientific Research Projects Unit of Marmara University
with the grant number:41
EFFECT OF THE ADDITIONS OF DEHYDRATED GEOPOLYMER
POWDERS ON COMPRESSIVE STRENGTH AND MICROSTRUCTURE OF
THE FINE ALUMINA POWDER REINFORCED NA-METAKAOLIN BASED
GEOPOLYMER COMPOSITE.
Suleyman Yasina*, Hayrettin Ahlatcia
aDepartment Of Metallurgy And Materials Engineering, Engineering Faculty, Karabuk
University
*syasin@karabuk.edu.tr
Abstract:
Geopolymers are inorganic binders or materials that have become a new alternative for hightemperature applications with their thermal superiority to traditional Portland cement. In this study,
it was aimed to enhance the properties of fine alumina powder reinforced geopolymer matrix
composite with an inorganic additive without causing an unfavourable new phase in the final
product. For this purpose, primarily dehydrated geopolymer powders (DGP powders) were
produced. Subsequently, samples were prepared by adding irreversibly dehydrated geopolymer
powders to fine alumina powder reinforced Na-Metakaolin based geopolymer resin up to 5 wt.%.
For the production of the samples, the usual wet-cast and temperature curing method were used.
The compressive strength, phase structure, microstructure and dimensional stability of the produced
specimens were investigated. Because of the addition of the optimum amount of DGP powders (1.25
wt.%), the compressive strength, the compactness of the microstructure and the thermal stability
were increased in the samples. At the higher amount of addition, it has been determined that due to
the formation of excessively porous micro-structure, the compressive strength is decreasing. The
added powders did not cause a significant change in the phase structure of the final composite.
Keywords: Geopolymer, Metakaolin, Alumina, Dehydrated Geopolymer Powder
Acknowledge:
"THIS STUDY IS SUPPORTED BY THE KARABUK UNIVERSITY COORDINATORSHIP OF RESEARCH PROJECT (KBÜBAP-18-YD-023), TURKEY."42
INVESTIGATION OF THE REDUCTION RATE OF COMPOSITE PELLETS
CONTAINING FLUE DUST AND MILL SCALES AT DIFFERENT
TEMPERATURES
Engin Cevika*, Furkan Ozkanb, Mustafa Boyrazlic, Elif Aranci Ozturkc
aIron And Steel Institue
bKarabuk University
cFirat University
*engincevik@karabuk.edu.tr
Abstract:
Storage of blast furnace flue dusts is an important environmental issue in integrated iron and steel
plants. The stored dusts cause environmental pollution because they have very small grain size. Flue
dusts can be fed back to the blast furnace with sinter blend, but this percentage does not exceed
10%. Due to this reason, in this study, it is aimed to produce composite pellets by adding the mill
scales to the flue dusts at different ratios. Calcite was added in such a way as to have a basicity ratio
of 0.7. The Fe / C ratio is 3 as provided by coke. The blends prepared at the specified ratios were
pelleted in the pelletizing disc. 5% Na-CMC was used as the binder. Compression strength and
porosity tests were carried out after the pelletization process. Then, the reduction tests were carried
out at three different temperatures (1200-1300-1400 Co) in an atmosphere controlled furnace.
Reduction rate was determined based on oxygen loss before and after reduction. It was observed
that while the amount of flue dust increased reduction of pellets was decreased. After the reduction,
XRD and SEM analyzes were applied to characterize the produced iron nuggets.
Keywords: Composite Pellets, Reduction Rate, Mill Scales, Flue Dusts
Acknowledge:
"This study is a part of Project (KBÜBAP-18-YD-024) which has been supported by Karabük
University."43
EXTRACTION OF VANADIUM AND ZIRCONIUM FROM RED MUD WITH
ACIDIC LEACHING
Tugba Selcen Atalaya*, Isil Kertib, Hakan Burak Karadaga, Yasin Ramazan Ekera, Mehmet
Muzaffer Karadagc
aNecmettin Erbakan University
bYildiz Technical University
cSelcuk University
*tsatalay@konya.edu.tr
Abstract:
Red mud is the residue of Bayer process commonly used for aluminum production from bauxite. The
ore treated with NaOH under pressure is thereafter filtered and involved the formation of valuable
metals rich sludge. In this study, extraction behavior of vanadium and zirconium in red mud has been
investigated with using hydrochloric acid and citric acid. The evolution of extraction rates according
to leaching temperature (25, 50, 100°C), leaching time (1, 3, 5 h) and acid concentration (1 M, 4 M, 8
M HCl; 1.04 M, 3.13 M, 5.21 M Citric acid) has been studied. The highly acidic media obtained with
hydrochloric has been more effective to the dissolution of both metals especially V. The dissolution
yield of vanadium has increased as leaching time raised from 1 h to 5 h in 8 M HCl solution. 10.92%
and 6.14% are respectively the dissolution yields of V and Zr obtained with using 8 M HCl at 50°C
during 3 h leaching.
Keywords: Leaching, Red Mud, Vanadium, Zirconium
*44
HARDWARE BASED FACE MATCHING SYSTEM
Fatih Ilkbahara*, Resul Karaa
aDuzce University
*fatihilkbahar@duzce.edu.tr
Abstract:
The use of biometric security systems is increasing nowadays. Face recognition systems, which are
part of biometric systems; is preferred because of its simplicity of use and its safety at the ideal level.
They are preferred and used in many areas such as security departments, commercial enterprises,
public institutions rapidly. It is important that face recognition systems work in real time.
The duration of automatic recognition of a searched human face by using the video data obtained
from security cameras takes quite a long time on conventional computers. The greatest reason for
the long duration of the process in computers with classical processors is that computers have low
ability of processing simultaneously. Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs), which has the ability
to perform different operations at the same time is used in order to reduce the processing time of
facial recognition system, Thanks to the system designed using the Very High Speed Integrated
Circuit Hardware Description (VHDL) hardware recognition language, matching process of
information belonging to different human faces has been done successfully. Design has been
achieved by combining Eigenfaces and Local Binary Pattern (LBP) algorithms which are
conventionally-used techniques in facial recognition systems. For the hardware design, Nexys4-DDR
card with the artix 7 series fpga chips manufactured by Xilinx company is preferred. Speed increase
is shown by analysing the results in table format based on the comparison made between images
whose features are extracted by choosing the face image in the Orl data sets, which is generally
preferred by the researchers
Keywords: Face Recognition,Fpga,Eigenfaces,Lbp
*This project is supported by Duzce University Research Fund Project Number: 2017.06.01.568”45
HYBRID METHOD FOR REDUCING ILLUMINATION EFFECT IN FACE
RECOGNITION SYSTEMS
Fatih Ilkbahara*, Resul Karaa
aDuzce University
*fatihilkbahar@duzce.edu.tr
Abstract:
Researchers continue to design safer systems with the development of intelligent cameras and
technology. Biometric systems provide convenience in the identification and identification of people
in their daily lives. Costs such as labor power, time and energy are reduced and productivity is
increased. Recognition rates are reduced in images where facial recognition systems have low / high
light intensity. In this work we have done, recognition of light intensity without being affected by low
(dark) or high light intensity (extremely bright) environments has been provided. When we examine
the facial recognition system in general, we first need to find the positions of the human faces in the
picture. We use the Viola and Jones algorithm in the literature. The image is recorded in the
database by extracting the features of the human faces. The comparison between the faces in the
image and the faces in the database is done using basic component analysis in addition to the gabor
wavelet method. Raspberry pi 3.0 borrow is used as a hardware to operate independently from the
computer. For real-time operation, the camera module with Sony IMX 219 PQ CMOS image sensor is
used to transfer images in the real environment. Thanks to this work, about 20 people taken in the
outdoor environment and 15 people in the image were recognized correctly. Approximately 75%
correct recognition was achieved. Thanks to this new approach, the correct recognition rate of the
system has been increased and at the same time it has been able to be operated independently from
the computer. Instant information sharing is provided by taking security cameras in place.
Keywords: Face Recognition,Gabor Filter, Pca, Hardware
*This project is supported by Duzce University Research Fund Project Number: 2017.06.01.568”46
AUTOMATIC CALCULATION OF POLARITY RATES IN TURKISH WORDS
Atilla Suncaka*, Ozlem Aktasb
aKastamonu University
bDokuz Eylul University
*atillasuncak@kastamonu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Sentiment analysis is a process used for knowledge extraction from the text. In order to perform this
analysis properly, polarity rates or scales of the words are needed. ‘WordNet’ is the exact tool that is
needed for sentiment analysis that includes those scales assigned to each word and various studies
have been performed in order to create a WordNet for English. Turkish, on the other hand, is a much
different language structurally or grammatically from English. In order to create a WordNet for
Turkish, many studies have been performed, however the main problem is that, one-to-one
translation from English cannot be applied due to the meaning loss and creating the words manually
takes much time. SentiTurkNet is a study that has been created by Sabanci University and includes
nearly 15000 Turkish words with their lexicons, glosses, polarities and part-of-speech (POS). In this
study, we performed an automatic calculation of polarity rate extraction for the Turkish words which
are not held in SentiTurkNet using the synonym, antonym and close-meaning equivalences of the
target word gathered in the lexicon. Thus, we will be close one more step to the main goal, which is
to achieve a WordNet for Turkish, by contributing to improve SentiTurkNet. Moreover, this work will
be a reference for the users working in this area.
Keywords: Sentiturknet,Synonym,Antonym,Polarity Rate,Turkish,Sentiment Analysis
*47
UFMC TRANSMISSION WITH DIFFERENT TYPE OF FILTERS IN
MULTIPATH CHANNEL FOR 5G NETWORKS
Tuncay Erena*, Aydin Akanb
aResearch And Development Department, Netas
bKatip Celebi University,Izmir
*tun.eren@gmail.com
Abstract:
Wireless communication systems require high bandwidth efficiency in frequency domain in order to
provide high data rate in mobile environments. Orthogonal Frequency Domain Multiplexing (OFDM)
is a popular signal model which uses orthogonal sinusoidal subcarriers and hence more bandwidth in
the spectrum is obtained. This modulation scheme and signal model is widely used in 4G LTE
Advanced systems. However, with the increasing demand for high data rate in mobile
communication systems, the current research activities focus on 5G mobile networks. Although
traditional OFDM system works fine and provide high quality of services for 4G networks , it has
some drawbacks such as high out-of-band radiation which leads to high peak-to average power ratio
(PAPR) and hence cannot be used for 5G systems. Universal Filtered Multi-Carrier (UFMC) system
seems to be a promising waveform for 5G and beyond in terms of improved spectrum efficiency
where OFDM out-of-band spectral leakage is reduced. The subcarriers at the output of IFFT block are
divided into subbands and each subband with a fixed number of subcarriers is filtered.
In this paper, we will firstly simulate the OFDM spectrum and show the performance of OFDM in
Rayleigh multipath channel. Secondly, UFMC model is investigated and applied through the Rayleigh
wireless channel. At the transmitter side we will use different filter models and make comparison of
the spectrum at the filter outputs. In both transmission techniques, bit error rate is measured in the
same multipath environment and their simulation results are compared.
The simulation results show that UFMC outperforms OFDM in terms of obtaining better spectrum.
Keywords: UFMC, OFDM, Filter
*48
MACRO NUTRIENT UPTAKE OF TALL FESCUE (FESTUCA
ARUNDINACEA) AS EFFECTED BY SALT STRESS
Mahmut Kaplana, Ali Unlukarab, Ihsan Serkan Varolb*, Hasan Kalec
aErciyes University, Faculty Of Agriculture, Department Of Field Crops
bErciyes University, Faculty Of Agriculture, Department Of Biosystems Engineering
cBozok University, Bogazliyan Vocational College, Department Of Plant And Animal Production
*svarol@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
Plants are exposed to various stress factors at different levels in their natural habitats. Such factors
are quite effective in plant nutrient uptake. The present study was conducted to investigate macro
nutrient uptake of tall fescue (Festuca arundinacea) under different irrigation water salinities (0, 3, 5
and 8 dS/m) representing different salt stress levels. Experiments were conducted in randomized
blocks design with 3 replications for two years (2014-2015) in Kayseri in Turkey. Irrigation waters
with different salinity levels were prepared by using CaCl2, NaCl and MgSO4 salts. Irrigations were
performed through drip lines.
While the effects of salt doses on all macro nutrient contents were found to be highly significant,
year and year x salt interactions had highly significant impacts on all macro nutrients, except for
nitrogen (P<0.01). Increasing nutrient contents were observed with increasing salt doses. Calcium
(Ca) contents varied between 658131-104563 mg/kg, potassium (K) contents between 24692.8-
30231.3 mg/kg, magnesium (Mg) contents between 1384.2-1987.5 mg/kg, sodium (Na) contents
between 99.3-525.7 mg/kg, phosphorus (P) contents between 2609.5-3255.8 mg/kg, sulphur (S)
contents between 2011.0-3496.5 mg/kg and finally nitrogen (N) contents varied between 10170.7-
13080.5 mg/kg. Despite the yield loses, salt stress contributed to production of herbage rich in
macro nutrients, thus provided support in reducing supplementary feed stuff to livestock.
Keywords: Tall Fescue, Salt Stress, Macro Nutrient
*49
EFFECTS OF VARIOUS FERTILIZERS ON YIELD AND WATER USE OF
PUMPKIN SEED
Ali Unlukaraa*, Ihsan Serkan Varola, Adem Gunesb
aErciyes University, Faculty Of Agriculture, Department Of Biosystems Engineering
bErciyes University, Faculty Of Agriculture, Department Of Plant Nutrition And Soil Science,
*unlukara@gmail.com
Abstract:
Recently Turkish Agriculture, Food and Animal Ministry encouraged farmers to use organic or
organo-mineral fertilizers. But farmers need further information about effect of these fertilizers on
plant performances. This experiment was conducted to determine of various fertilizers such as
mineral fertilizer (MF), Hexaferm organo-mineral fertilizer (OM) and compost + mineral fertilizer
(CM) on pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo L.) yield and water use in Kayseri/Turkey. Mineral and organomineral fertilizers amounts were calculated according to 9-9-9 (9% N, 9% P2O5, and 9% K2O) needs
of pumpkin. N, P and K contents of mineral fertilizer were 15-15-15, organo-mineral fertilizer
included 9-9-9 and also 20% organic matter, and CM were consisted of a compost fertilizer (1.2% N,
1% P2O5, 1.2% K2O and 70% total organic matter) and a compose mineral fertilizer included 15-15-
15. The experiment was designed completely randomized plots in blocks with three replications. Soil
water was monitored by neutron meter and pumpkin water requirement was determined by soil
water budget. Drip irrigation system was use to irrigate pumpkin. Effects of these various fertilizers
on pumpkin fruit number per plant, fruit mean weight, fruit yield, 1000-seed weight and plant water
consumption were not found significant. The main purpose of pumpkin farming in Turkey is its seed
production and applying various fertilizers significantly affected pumpkin seed yield according to this
experiment results. The best seed yield was 1435 kg ha-1 obtained from organo-mineral fertilizer.
Using organo-mineral fertilizer in pumpkin farming caused 38% seed yield increases. Pumpkin
consumed 395 mm water and produced 0.22, 0.36 and 0.27 kg pumpkin seed per consumed 1 m3
water for CM, OM and MF, respectively. Organo-mineral fertilization also considerably contribute
water use efficiency.
Keywords: Organo-Mineral Fertilizer, Pumpkin Seed, Water Use Efficiency
*This experiment was supported by Hexagon Solid Waste Management Incorporated Company.50
INVESTIGATING THE EFFECT OF PARALLELISM ON A SPARK-BASED
RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM
Akin Ozcifta, Deniz Kilinca, Ozlem Aktasb, Fatma Bozyigitc*
aSoftware Engineering Department, Faculty Of Technology, Manisa Celal Bayar University
bComputer Engineering Department, Faculty Of Engineering,Dokuz Eylul University
cComputer Engineering, Graduate School Of Natural And Applied Sciences, Dokuz Eylul University
*ftmbozyigit@gmail.com
Abstract:
Generation of various types of data at continuously increasing amounts led to the emergence of big
data concept. Further the rapid development of information technology has boosted the volume of
data. Big data has become a prominent concept in every branch of digital economy. In the big data
world, recommendation systems have become progressively popular as the recommendation
system automatically suggests the user best products/services associated with past experiences.
Since, the success of a recommendation system is also affected with past experiences of users, the
model need to be updated with new data on a regular basis. Apache Spark being one of the scalable
big data processing platforms supports batch or stream data processing with various Machine
Learning algorithms. In this study, Alternating Least Squares (ALS) Matrix Factorization method of
Apache Spark is employed to design and develop a parallel processing based recommendation
system. The performance of the system and the effect of the parallelization are evaluated with
public MoviLens dataset which contains 45.000 movies, 270.000 users, and 26.000.000 ratings. The
experimental results show that Spark’s configuration parameters and system parallelization directly
affect overall performance of the designed recommendation system.
Keywords: Big Data, Recommendation Systems, Alternating Least Squares (ALS) Matrix
Factorization, Apache Spark, Parallelization
*51
USAGE OF NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING TECHNIQUES IN
SOFTWARE ENGINEERING PRACTICES
Fatma Bozyigita*, Ozlem Aktasb, Deniz Kilincc, Akin Ozciftc
aComputer Engineering Department, Graduate School Of Natural And Applied Sciences, Dokuz Eylul
University
bComputer Engineering Department, Faculty Of Engineering, Dokuz Eylul University
cSoftware Engineering Department, Faculty Of Technology, Manisa Celal Bayar University
*ftmbozyigit@gmail.com
Abstract:
Natural Language Processing (NLP) is a research area in the field of computer science and
computational linguistics. NLP involves methods and approaches to understand and interpret human
language in text or speech. Software Engineering (SE) is a discipline including processes, tools and
standards to construct software products in the field of computer science. In SE, software
development lifecycle (SDLC) is a structured series of phases to develop a target software product.
During the cycle, each phase has its own input and output such as requirements, interview notes,
bug reports, and test cases. The mentioned blueprints include text data which may be processed
with the use of NLP methods. For instance a requirement document is in general transformed
manually into a model. This costly process may be automated with support of various NLP
approaches. In this work we explored the use of how numerous steps of SDLC benefits from NLP
methods. The results of the research show that NLP techniques may help to automate some of the
SDLC steps.
Keywords: Natural Language Processing (NLP), Software Engineering (SE), Software Development
Life Cycle (SDLC), Systematic Research
*52
APPLICATIONS DEVELOPMENT FOR EASY LEARNING OF
GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Abdurrahman Eymena*
aErciyes University, Dept. Of Geomatics Eng.
*ageymen@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
There are many methods in literature for ensuring higher level of learning efficiencies of students.
There is no study on the learning of spatial analysis used in Geographical Information Systems (GIS)
in the literature. Therefore in this paper, it is aimed to visualize spatial analyses with animations
made in ArcGIS software in order to especially ensure that students understand better spatial
analyses used in GIS. Learning of spatial analysis methods used in GIS are difficult issue for both
lecturers and students. As a solution method in this study, in order to overcome these difficulties in
the teaching of spatial analysis, animations are created in ArcGIS software. For this purpose,
"Animation" module was developed in ArcGIS. The effects of these educational animations made for
spatial analysis to successes of students are assessed by using Likert type surveys. According to the
evaluation of the results, it is seen that the interests of the students to the spatial analysis increase
thanks to the proposed method and the students perform the spatial analysis by reaching current
data.
Keywords: Geographical Information System, Spatial Analysis, Animation-Based Learning, Digital
Elevation Model
*53
A NOVEL INTEGRATED APPROACH FOR GREEN SUPPLIER SELECTION
BY USING MACBETH AND TAGUCHI LOSS FUNCTIONS
Hacer Guner Gorena, Ahmet Alp Senocaka*
aPamukkale University
*asenocak@pau.edu.tr
Abstract:
By virtue of increasing environmental awareness, customer demands and government legislations
on environmental protection, the concept of green supply chain has gained more importance
especially since the 1990s. Therefore, firms incorporate environmental approaches into their
production processes in order to survive in this tough competitive market. Within the scope, this
study focuses on integrating environmental requirements into the supplier selection process since
natural resources reach the threshold values and environmental awareness increases day by day.
The main purpose of this study is to suggest an integrated approach for solving the green supplier
selection problem. The proposed approach consists of two steps. In the first step, the weights of the
criteria were obtained by the MACBETH (Measuring Attractiveness by a Categorical Based Evaluation
Technique) method. In the next stage, Taguchi loss functions were used to rank suppliers and
determine the best one. Furthermore, a sensitivity analysis was conducted to monitor the effect of
possible changes on the weights of criteria.
Keywords: Green Supplier Selection, MACBETH, Taguchi Loss Functions
*54
CUTTING FORCE PREDICTION FOR END MILLING PROCESS
Yavuz Kaplana*
aPamukkale University
*ykaplan@pau.edu.tr
Abstract:
In all engineering applications, realizing of safe working conditions and generate durable, high
quality and economical product and system, the forces affecting the cutting tools and machining
centers must be measured correctly and accurately. The modeling and simulation software of
machining process provide to researchers simulate of real work conditions without the costs and
risks. This paper aims to investigate on utility of finite element model (FEM) using in milling
processes. Numerical simulations with finite element model were performed using Deform-3D
software. The end milling processes were carried out with carbide end mills at three different cutting
speeds, three different feed rates and two different depth of cut. In end milling process, use of lower
feed rate, higher cutting speed and lower depth of cut are recommended to obtain minimum cutting
forces for the specified test range. The results show that there is a good agreement between finite
element analysis and experimental studies.
Keywords: End Milling, Finite Element Model, Cutting Force
*55
FREE VIBRATION OF DEFECTED CANTILEVER CARBON NANOROD BY
USING NONLOCAL ELASTICITY
Seckin Filiza*
aTekirdag Namik Kemal University, Corlu Vocational School
*sfiliz@nku.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this study, vibration in affected nanotubes is studied. In recent years, after the invention of
nanotubes were used in many areas. For example, with the use of nano strain gauge devices, the
mechanical properties of the material measurements will be more accurate. Nanotubes are
formulated as a rod by using nonlocal elasticity theory and the equation of motion will be replaced
by the spring instead of the dislocated atom (affected place). The abnormalities in the vibration
behaviour will be examined. It is hoped that the structure will give information about whether it is
damaged or not. Affected places (gaps) will be designed as linear springs. With the addition of the
spring constant to the carbon nanotube system, the damaged part is formulated. This makes it
possible to have an idea about the damage. In this paper, rod equation will be examined. The carbon
nanotubes are examined in a regular atomic formulation as nanorod. In this format, considering that
the atoms are lined up without cracks and the frequency of the vibration could be solved like a
nonlocal rod formulation.
Keywords: Axial Vibration, Carbon Nanotubes, Cracked Rods, Free Vibration, Nonlocal Elasticity
Theory.
*56
A NOVEL PLANAR RECONFIGURABLE MICROWAVE FILTER DESIGN
Ayse Nihan Basmacia*
aElectronics Technology, Tekirdag Namik Kemal University, Corlu Vocational School
*anbasmaci@nku.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this study, a novel planar reconfigurable microwave filter design is presented by using a square
loop resonator with inductive slits. The designed filter that can provide basic features such as circuit
miniaturization, fabrication simplicity and connectivity simplicity with the help of inductive slits and
a single via connection. Reconfigurable circuit feature can be achieved with changes in the single via
connection that occurs bandstop-bandpass characteristic variations. In the theoretical analyzes of
the designed filter, even-odd mode anlysis method and ABCD matrix synthesis method are used and
besides, in the simulation analyzes SONNET SOFTWARE, a full-wave EM (Electro-Magnetic) simulator
package program is used. Eventually within the scope of this study, a novel reconfigurable planar
filter has been designed and the performance tests has been performed to compare the simulation
results and the theoretical analyzes results for the theoretical verification. The simulation and
theoretical results of the filter are found to be in harmony with each other.
Keywords: Bandpass Filter, Bandstop Filter, Reconfigurable, Resonator, Microwave Filter
*57
AN INVESTIGATION OF INJECTION MOULDED PRODUCTS
DEVELOPMENT
Mohamad Sharis Bin Abdul Karima*, Hamdan Al Shehrib
aHigher Colleges Of Technology
bTasnee Petrochemicals
*msharis@hct.ac.ae
Abstract:
This research paper describes a proposal for the methodology or process of injection moulded parts
and product development. Plastics i.e. thermoplastics, thermosets and elastomers products market
is huge and the global plastics market is expected to reach USD 654.38 billion by 2020 [1]. Injection
moulding is the most widely used moulding process for thermoplastics, and in few applications
through equipment modifications thermosets and elastomers are also injection moulded [2]. In this
paper, an injection moulded part product development process is suggested and two real
engineering case studies have been selected and investigated based on the suggested product
development process. The first case study studied, proposed and validated the design and
processability of an innovative and cost effective High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) industrial pallet
design. The design criteria for the pallet were first outlined and iterations of designs were made to
achieve and comply with the desired criteria. HDPE industrial pallets need to be designed in such a
way it can withstand similar or better static and dynamic loadings than wooden pallets, have high
stackability for maximum shipping quantity, consumed minimum volume of plastic materials and
have comfortable processing window for injection mouldability. The second case study describes the
investigation of failed paint buckets that happened in a paint factory. According to the data
provided by the manufacturer, the design and the material of the buckets should be able to absorb
the intended design loads. However some buckets in the bottom of the bucket stacks have buckled
and raise concerns to the company. Several potential reasons have been presented and
investigated. An FEA mechanical load simulation has been designed and run to evaluate different
cases and conditions.
Keywords: Injection Moulding, Plastics Cad, Cae, Moldflow, Product Design, High Density
Polyethylene
*58
INVESTIGATION OF ADSORPTION OF OLEIC ACID FROM SUNFLOWER
OIL BY USING AMBERLYST 21 AS AN ADSORBENT
Elif Tumkora*, Oguzhan Ilgena
aKocaeli University
*elifeylulbulut@gmail.com
Abstract:
Vegetable oils are called as waste vegetable oils when used several times. The use of vegetable oils
in cooking or frying causes physical and chemical changes. The waste vegetable oils are considered
as serious environmental pollutant because of their adverse effects on ecosystem. The waste
vegetable oils can be converted to biodiesel after transesterification reaction. Biodiesel is presented
as an alternative to petroleum based diesel fuel since energy demand is constantly increasing and
resources are gradually decreasing in the world. The removal of free fatty acids from waste
vegetable oils provides most moderate reaction conditions for biodiesel production when compared
with untreated one. Adsorption is an alternative method which provides less energy consumption
for removal of free fatty acid from oils compared with other methods like neutralization, extraction
and distillation. In the study, Amberlyst A21 ion exchange resin was used to remove of oleic acid
from oleic acid–sunflower oil mixtures. The effects of parameters such as temperature, adsorbent
amount, and contact time on oleic acid adsorption were investigated.
Keywords: Adsorption, Oleic Acid, Sunflower Oil, Amberlyst A21
*59
EVALUATION OF A NOVEL DESIGN FOR IMPROVING THE MECHANICAL
PROPERTIES OF CARBON AND GLASS FIBER REINFORCED FILAMENT
WOUND COMPOSITE TANKS EXPOSED TO INTERNAL PRESSURES
Ibrahim Fadil Soykoka*, Umit Safaka, Hamza Tasa
aManisa Celal Bayar University
*ibrahim.soykok@cbu.edu.tr
Abstract:
During the current investigation, the critic region stresses of filament wound composite tanks were
intended to minimize by applying a novel geometrical design which involves implementing
longitudinally changing thickness of the wall having the same material volume as that of a standard
tank structure. The modifications for the establishment of the original design was applied merely on
the cylindrical region of the specimens. Consisting of 45°, 55°, 60°, 75°, 90°, five different fiber
orientations were numerically investigated. For each fiber orientation, the maximum stress values
generated in the original design were found by finite element analysis and those were compared
with the corresponding ones generated in the flat cylindrical structure. The analyses were conducted
based on both Tsai-Wu and Maximum Stress failure theories which are two most commonly used
damage criterias in composites. The obtained results indicates that the original design with varying
wall thickness will enable lighter and more durable tank designs, as well as provide material and cost
savings.
Keywords: Glass Fiber, Carbon Fiber, Filament Winding, Composite Tank
*60
OPTIMIZATION OF MR FLUID POLISHING CONDITION FOR IMPROVING
THE SHAPE ACCURACY OF COVER GLASS EDGE
Byung-Chan Kima*, Ki-Hyeok Songa, Jae-Hwa Chunga, Myeong-Woo Choa
aInha University
*kbc4077@naver.com
Abstract:
According to the minimization of the electronic devices, thickness of cover-glass becomes thinner
and the strength of that is stronger. In this reason, the research for the cover-glass that has high
strength is ongoing. Generally, the break of glass by external force is occurred from the edge
because it is the stress by external force is concentrated. The PV(Peak and Valley) value, which is one
of the parameter in surface roughness, can affect to the strength of cover-glass. It is important for
high edge strength of cover-glass to develop the grinding and polishing technology for cover-glass
edge. Magnetorheological fluid (MR fluid) is a Newtonian fluid that of the viscosity is affected by
magnetic field. In this study, MR fluid is used to polishing cover-glass edge for high-precise surface
roughness. MR fluid in magnetic field acts as a polishing pad in MR fluid polishing system, not a
general grinding or polishing process. For the high-precise surface roughness of cover-glass edge,
optimum polishing condition is essentially deducted. To deduct the optimum MR fluid polishing
condition, response surface method that one of the design of experiment (DOE) is used. Factors in
response surface method are abrasive size, federate and polishing depth and the PV value is a
dependent variable. Also, the effect of each factor to the PV value is analyzed using analysis of
variance (ANOVA).
It is confirmed that each factor affects to the PV value in 95% confidence interval and it can be found
that precise surface roughness can be obtained by optimum polishing condition in MR fluid
polishing.
Keywords: Mr Fluid, Mr Fluid Polishing, Cover Glass, Response Surface Method
*This work was supported by NRF grant funded by the Korea governmnet(MSIP)(NRF-2015R1A2A2A01005811)61
APPLICATION OF MASKLESS LITHOGRAPHY PROCESS FOR MEMS
PROBE TIP FABRICATION
Ki Hyeok Songa*, Myeong-Woo Choa, Dong-Wook Lima
aInha Univ.
*khsong@inha.edu
Abstract:
Recently, as the semiconductor industry develops, studies are being made on an inspection system
and a micro probe manufacturing technology for testing whether a semiconductor chip is defective.
The probe card is a key part of the inspection system and plays an important role in checking the
defect by receiving the electrical signal of the semiconductor wafer. Probe tip in Probe card is a part
that performs the actual inspection and is manufactured through a mask type lithography process.
Such a mask-type lithography increases the cost of manufacturing the mask and the process time,
and causes a problem that the production rate is lowered when the mask is contaminated.
Accordingly, a process for manufacturing a probe tip through maskless lithography has recently been
developed, in which an exposure process is performed without using a mask. In this paper, a MEMS
probe tip with a thickness of 45um was designed and its design was verified by structural analysis.
Patterns of MEMS probe tip designed by maskless lithography were fabricated and nickel was plated
on the patterns fabricated by plating process. The probe tip was completed through the lapping
process and the etching process. In order to verify the performance of the finished probe tip, elastic
modulus and contact force were measured. The modulus of elasticity of the probe tip made of
plated nickel was measured to be 145 GPa and the contact force was measured to be 2.0 gf
(minimum contact force) or more. Therefore, we confirmed the applicability of the probe tip
fabricated through this process.
Keywords: Maskless Lithography, Manufacturing, Probe Tip, Mems
*This work was supported by NRF grant funded by the Korea government(MSIP)(NRF-2015R1A2A2A01005811)62
THE PROPERTIES OF YARNS CONTAINING RECYCLE POLYESTER FIBER
IN DIFFERENT YARN NUMBER
Seval Uyanika*
aGaziantep University
*uyanik@gantep.edu.tr
Abstract:
Recycling is not new to the textile and apparel industry. Recycling ‘refers to the breakdown of
product into its raw materials in order for the raw material to be reclaimed and used in new
products. In textile when recycling is mentioned, recycle fibers come first. The using of recycle fibers
increases day by day in the yarn manufacturing. Cotton and polyester are especially the most
common fibers recycled, but other fibers including wool, nylon, and even aramids are being recycled
in yarn production. In this study, it is aimed to determine the properties of yarns containing recyle
polyester fiber in different yarn number. For this purpose, the yarns containing viscose fiber and
recycle polyester fiber were produced at different blend ratios and different yarn numbers.
Additionally, pure yarns which made by virgin polyester fiber and viscose fiber were manufactured
to compare with these yarns. After, the produced yarns were tested to determine of their physical
and mechanical properties considering relevant standards. Test results showed that recycle
polyester fibers cause worsening in yarn quality. On the other hand, these negative effects are more
clearly observed in terms of yarn physical properties which are unevenness, imperfection and
hairiness in comparison to yarn mechanical properties which are tenacity and elongation.
Keywords: Recycle Polyester Fiber, Yarn Manufacturing, Yarn Number, Yarn Properties, Polyester
Fiber, Viscose Fiber
*63
FABRIC BASED PLAIN HEATERS AS AN INNOVATIVE APPROACH FOR
VEHICLE HEATING: A THEORETICAL RESEARCH ON COMPARATIVE
PERFORMANCE
Hayri Erena*, Volkan Kirmacib, Mustafa Erolc, Yavuz Ozturka, Huseyin Duranb, Ahmet Yavasc
aAnadolu Isuzu Otomotiv
bBartin Univercity
cIzmir Katip Celebi Univercity
*hayri.eren@isuzu.com.tr
Abstract:
Traditionally, almost in all vehicle types, convectional heating method has been used to warm-up
passenger compartment air so as to provide a comfortable aurora for the passengers. However, this
traditional method has some disadvantages in its own. The major disadvantage of the system may
be cited as its cascaded structure. In order to warm up a passenger, the system sequentially
requires some steps as; burning the fuel, warming up the coolant, heating coils through pumping
coolant and conditioning the cabin air using heated coils. This cascaded and low efficient proses is
take longer times owing to the steps of operation. Against traditional heating system, a heating
system which located on the interior surfaces of the vehicle interior trim components may provide
significant difference on heating performance as well as efficiency and comfort. In this study, an
electrical heating system with fabric based plain heating elements with conductive yarns are
theoretically investigated as a part of an experimental research project and thermal performance
comparison studies will be presented.
Keywords: Fabric Heating, Public Transport Vehicle Heating, Innovative Heating, Noval Heating,
Vehicle Electrical Heatin
*This research is founded by "The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey" and "Anadolu Isuzu
Otomotiv AS."64
COMPARISON OF PERFORMANCES OF PARALLEL AND SERIAL
CONNECTED COUNTER FLOW RANQUE-HILSCH VORTEX TUBES
SYSTEM EXPERIMENTALLY
Volkan Kirmacia, Huseyin Kayaa, Hayri Erenb*, Fahrettin Gunvera
aBartin University
bAnadolu Isuzu Otomotiv
*hayri.eren@isuzu.com.tr
Abstract:
Refrigeration is one of the most significant research areas that are strongly relevant to the daily life
of human beings. It is the control process of heat transfer. There are significant adverse effects of
refrigeration like ozone depletion and global warming because of CFC refrigerants. Consequently, it
is very important to use environmentally friendly systems for our universe. A non-conventional
system vortex tube is very eco-friendly. It is a mechanical device which uses natural fluids such as air
and oxygen as working mediums for refrigeration process. In this study, the vortex tube, having all
parts stationary, except the control valve was used in order to arrange volumetric flows, was used in
7 mm inner diameter and 100 mm length counter flow Ranque-Hilsch vortex tube (RHVT).
Experimental setup was constituted by connecting two vortex tubes as serial and parallel form.
Compressed air was used as a working fluid with inlet pressure range 150 to 500 kPa with 50 kPa
variation. Steel and aluminum nozzles were used in the RHVT with nozzle number six. Performance
of heating and cooling temperature of a parallel connected counter flow Ranque-Hilsch Vortex Tube
was experimentally investigated. Results of the experiments were discussed.
Keywords: Ranque-Hilsch Vortex Tube, Cooling, Heating
*65
DEFORMATION OF SOIL AT TUNNEL CONSTRUCTION
Utkan Mutmana*, Merve Buluta
aKocaeli University
*utkanmutman@gmail.com
Abstract:
A major consequence of the increasing population density in the urban districts is the looming
shortage of the available land for new developments. This problem necessitates the utilization of
under the ground as well as developing above the ground. With the advent of the technology, below
the ground structures have gained importance especially in urban transportation and applications in
this field. The most effective among those are the sub-structure buildings and tunneling solutions.
Especially in crowded cities, railway and highway tunnels below the ground are among these
solutions. The new Austrian Tunnel Building Method was born with the new technology along with
the developments in classical tunnel boring methods. The New Austrian Tunnel Building Method is
generally more economic and effective in utilizing the support systems in tunnel building. In its
broad sense definition, it is based on supporting the newly opened tunnel by the rock structure
around it.
In this study we have investigated a station selected in a specified zone of an underground tunnel
opened by the New Austrian Tunnel Building Method. By considering the geological properties of the
tunnel and engineering applications of the region, the selected station was modelled with PLAXIS 2D
program by using the finite element method. After this modelled, deformation was compared. End
of the study, the suitable method was offered to decrease deformation.
Keywords: Tunnel, Plaxis, NATM, Fem
*66
PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT OF AN INTELLIGENT MATERIAL
HANDLING SYSTEM
Ridvan Ozdemira*, Omer Faruk Arginb
aBilecik Seyh Edebali University
bIstanbul Technical University
*ridvan.ozdemir@bilecik.edu.tr
Abstract:
Industry 4.0 technologies represent high-level intelligent manufacturing strategies that increase
production efficiency and decrease production time. For an instance, one of the most useful
Material Handling System (MHS) is Automated Storage and Retrieval System (ASRS), which allows
factory owners to enhance operational efficiency and increase productivity. The main aim of this
study is to create a simulation platform of a MHS serviced by Rail Guided Vehicles (RGV) to measure
possible performance improvements on the MHS. MHS serviced by RGV, which we used in this
study, is in the class of Discrete Event Systems (DES). One of the most commonly used method in
modeling and analysis of the DES is Petri nets. Petri nets are very efficient for modeling the MHS’s
dynamic behaviors, especially convenient for real time control implementation. In this study, Petri
nets are used for modeling framework. The model is constructed and implemented in MATLAB’s
Simulink Stateflow environment. An interface is designed in MATLAB’s GUI tool for setting system’s
specific parameters, choosing the type of input load, demonstrating the performance graphs,
monitoring the system online and real-time controlling. The RGV’s route is divided into 2 zone with
an interlocking application for reducing unnecessary movements after the simulation of system was
completed and these changes were implemented on the simulation. Finally, the performance of the
system for with/without interlocking application are compared with each other according to the
performance indices in literature under three different type load inputs which are low, medium and
high frequency.
Keywords: Industry 4.0, Intelligent Manufacturing, Stateflow, Rail Guided Vehicle, Material Handling
Systems, Petri Nets
*67
DETERMINATION OF THE DYNAMIC BEHAVIOR OF A SINGLE DEGREE
OF FREEDOM SHEAR FRAME BY VIDEO PROCESSING
Cagla Sekercia*, Erdem Damcib
aDogus University
bIstanbul University
*csekerci@dogus.edu.tr
Abstract:
In recent years, image-processing techniques, which are used in many areas, are also being used
frequently in the field of civil engineering. While this technique in nowadays is widely used in a
determination of the material properties, it is also used in to determine the dynamic characteristics
of the buildings. Image processing technique is a preferred method in laboratory and field studies
because of both its lower cost in terms of instrumentation and easiness to implement
experimentally. For this reason, in this study, it was aimed to make laboratory experiments on basic
building models with the aim of creating a basis for future field studies. A single story shear-frame
model with single degree of freedom was used for the examination and three different experiments
were carried out on the shear frame. The first experiment is the free vibration experiment, which is
generated by giving an initial displacement, and the other two experiments are harmonic and scaled
strong ground motions, which were carried out on the shake table. The purpose of the three
experiments is to determine the displacements at the shake table level of the building model and
the story displacements, to determine the dynamic characteristics of the structure model. For the
determination of the dynamic characteristics, three different methods including: the results of the
acceleration records taken from the story level and shaking table, displacement curves obtained by
video processing technique and theoretical calculations, are used respectively and the results are
given comparatively.
Keywords: Video Processing, Dynamic Characteristics, Shear Frame.
*This work was supported by Scientific Research Projects Coordination Unit of Istanbul University. Project
number, FLO-2017-2721968
SELECTION OF REINFORCED CONCRETE FORMWORK SYSTEM WITH
MOORA MULTI CRITERIA DECISION MAKING METHOD
Latif Onur Ugura*, Engin Yuksela, Mursel Erdala
aDuzce University
*latifugur@duzce.edu.tr
Abstract:
Reinforced concrete formwork systems constitute an important part of rough construction costs. In
this study, the MOORA method was used for Multi-Criteria Decision Making approaches in the
decision of procurement of reinforced concrete form system for a construction company. In this
way, it is aimed to provide a solution to the problem of selecting the mold system. The MOORA
method, which is one of the recommended methods for multi-objective optimization with discrete
alternatives, is a method that is successfully used in case of importance. Economically cheap in work,
long-term use in the opportunity to use, does not create problems in practice and so on it was tried
to choose the mold system which provides the best criteria. In the study, both the Odds Method and
the Reference Point Approach were used to calculate. In the results of study; It is understood that
the decision model of purchasing reinforced concrete formwork system based on MOORA method
can be used in the selection and evaluation of reinforced concrete formwork system in construction
companies. The applied model can be used in similar production companies by changing the criteria.
It should also be emphasized that the subjective assessment given by the decision maker's intuitions,
experience and expertise (expert opinion), not only on numerical values, but on the quantification
stages gives the process subjectivity.
Keywords: Reinforced Concrete Formwork System, Multi Criteria Decision Making, Moora Method
*69
THE IMPACT OF THE USE OF DIFFERENT SLAB TYPES ON THE ROUGH
CONSTRUCTION COST OF THE SAME ARCHITECTURAL REINFORCED
CONCRETE BUILDINGS
Latif Onur Ugura*, Mursel Erdala
aDuzce University, Dep. Of Civil Engineering
*latifugur@duzce.edu.tr
Abstract:
The floor is divided into floors and walked on; to the structural members carrying the loads and their
own weight to the supports. Reinforced concrete carcasses convey the loads from the beams to the
beams, the loads coming on the beams to the columns, the columns and all the loads on the
foundation. Among these structural elements, the upholstery can be designed in many types
according to the desired characteristics. In this study, it is aimed to compare the rough building costs
when four different twenty four-story buildings with the same architectures use different types of
flooring. For this purpose, the architectural project prepared previously was utilized. Also IDECAD
program was used for modeling of buildings. Models made are shown in figures. The cost analyzes
were compared taking into account the rough construction costs. The costs of rough construction
elements are calculated according to 2017 Unit Price Ranges of Turkey. According to the analysis
results, the building designed with cassette laying; 21.12% from the design with beamed flooring, it
was found that it was costly 1.08% from the building which was designed with asphalt flooring using
brick as the filling material and 4.76% from the building which was designed with asphalt flooring
which used Styrofoam as filling material. The initial investment cost of the upholstery used as the
filler brick is lower but the time to be spent according to the asphalt pavement will be much higher.
It also means that the building is less subject to earthquake effects because it is a lighter material
than the stroreun brick. Straforun will be a more accurate decision to be preferred both in terms of
safety and workmanship.
Keywords: Concrete Structures, Upholstery Types, Construction Cost
*70
WATER AND YIELD RELATIONSHIP FOR DRIP IRRIGATED PEA IN
KAYSERI CONDITIONS
Halil Kirnaka*, Serhat Uzunb, Hasan Ali Irikb, Mehmet Yilmazb, Hamdi Ozaktanb, Mehmet
Arslanb
aAdnan Menderes University
bErciyes University Faculty Of Agriculture
*haliirik42@gmail.com
Abstract:
Growth of pea under irrigated conditions in Kayseri and effects of irrigation water levels on yield and
yield components of the pea were investigated. The experiment was designed as a completely
randomized block design with three replications in the Erciyes University Agricultural Research and
Application Center in 2016. There was 6 different irrigation treatments such as 0% (I0-dry), 25%
(I25), 50% (I50), 75% (I75) and 100% (I100-full irrigation) under drip irrigation system. Irrigation was
initiated when the 40% (±5) of available water in the root zone was consumed. Irrigation schedule
was based on replenishment of 100, 75, 50, 25, and 0% of soil water depleted from 60 cm soil depth
with 5-day irrigation intervals. The applied irrigation water and seasonal crop evapotranspiration
rate varied between 35- 254.4 mm and 234.5-525.0 mm, respectively. The seed yield varied between
95.90 and 374.20 kg/da. The results indicated that the pea in the semi-arid conditions could be
irrigated with drip irrigation system with 5-day irrigation intervals under I75 treatment
Keywords: Pea, Irrigation Water Levels, Deficit Irrigation, Drip Irrigation
*71
EFFECTS OF DIFFERENT IRRIGATION LEVELS ON OIL AND FATTY ACID
COMPOSITION OF PUMPKIN SEEDS
Halil Kirnaka*, Hasan Ali Irikb, Oya Sipahioglub, Ali Unlukarab, Mehmet Yilmazb
aAdnan Menderes University, Faculty Of Engineering
bErciyes University Faculty Of Agriculture
*haliirik42@gmail.com
Abstract:
Despite several oil sources, soybean, date, rapeseed and sunflower are commonly used as oil crops.
Although pumpkin seeds are quite rich in oil composition, it is not used much in human nutrition and
industrial practices. This study was conducted over the experimental fields of Erciyes University
Agricultural Research Center in 2016. Experiments were conducted in randomized blocks design with
3 replications. There were 6 different irrigation treatments as of I0, I20, I40, I60, I80 and I100. And
effects of irrigation levels on oil content and fatty acid composition of pumpkin seeds were
investigated. While there were significant differences in oil contents of irrigation treatments
(p<0.05), the differences in fatty acid compositions were not found to be significant. Oil contents
varied between 58.3-63.8%. While linoleic, linolenic, oleic, stearic, palmitic and meristic acid were
investigated, linolenic and meristic acid were not encountered in pumpkin seeds. The average
concentration of palmitic, stearic, oleic and linoleic acids ranged between 10.8–12.62%, 9.12–10.4%,
39.55–44.51% and 32.37–35.03%, respectively.
Keywords: Pumpkin Seed, Irrigation, Oil Content, Fatty Acid Composition
*72
DETERMINATION OF POTENTIAL NUTRITIVE VALUE OF TURKISH
SORGHUM (SORGHUM BICOLOR L.) LANDRACE
Mahmut Kaplana*, Selim Bozkurta, Ridvan Temizgulb, Mehmet Fatih Yilmazc, Hasan
Kaled,Yusuf Murat Kardesa, Ersel Tala, Taner Akare
aDepartment Of Field Crops, Faculty Of Agriculture, University Of Erciyes, Kayseri, Turkey
bDepartment Of Biology, Faculty Of Science, University Of Erciyes, Kayseri, Turkey
cEast Mediterranean Transitional Zone Agricultural Research Of Institute
dDepartment Of Crops And Animal Science, Bogazliyan Vocational School, University Of Bozok,
Yozgat, Turkey
eDepartment Of Field Crops, Faculty Of Agriculture, University Of Akdeniz, Antalya, Turkey
*mahmutkaplan5@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Sorghum is resistant against adverse condition like high temperature, drought, salinity and pH. It is a
C4 crop with low input and high photosynthetic activity. Therefore, it is commonly cultivated all
around the world and it is fifth significant cereal worldwide. This study was conducted for animal
feed traits characterization of Turkish sorghum landraces (156 landrace and 4 cultivars) and to
develop materials to be used in further sorghum breeding studies. Sorghum grain samples were
ground to pass 1 mm sieve mill and made ready for chemical analysis. Crude protein, ADF, NDF,
crude oil, condense tannin and crude ash were investigated. Experiments were conducted in
randomized complete blocks design with three replications. Sorghum genotypes had a significant
(P?0.01) effect on the parameters studied in the current study. Experimental results revealed that
crude protein ratios of 138 landrace (>%8.38), digestible protein ratios of 86 landrace (>%57.38),
crude oil contents of 21 landrace (>%2.80), were higher than the values of the greatest standard
cultivar. ADF ratios of 20 landrace (<%6.76), NDF ratios of 53 landrace (<%14.63) were lower than
the values of lowest standard cultivar. Condense tannin ratios of Turkish sorghum landraces varied
between 0.18-3.52% and most of these values were below the damage threshold for animal feeding.
Crude ash ratios varied between 1.09-4.39%.
Present finding revealed that several landraces had superior nutritional composition for animals over
the standard cultivars. The landrace identified in this study have a potential as a potential to be used
as parents in further breeding studies.
Keywords: Sorghum, Genetic Resources, Landrace, Chemical Composition
*This research was supported by TUBITAK (Project number: 113O914)73
MORPHOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF NEWLY SELECTED LINES
FROM TURKISH SORGHUM LANDRACES
Mahmut Kaplana*, Ridvan Temizgulb, Mehmet Fatih Yilmazc, Hasan Kaled, Yusuf Murat
Kardesa, Ersel Tala, Taner Akare
aDepartment Of Field Crops, Faculty Of Agriculture, University Of Erciyes, Kayseri, Turkey
bDepartment Of Biology, Faculty Of Science, University Of Erciyes, Kayseri, Turkey
cEast Mediterranean Transitional Zone Agricultural Research Of Institute, Kahramanmaras, Turkey
dBozok University, Bogazliyan Vocational College, Department Of Plant And Animal Production
eDepartment Of Field Crops, Faculty Of Agriculture, University Of Akdeniz, Antalya, Turkey
*mahmutkaplan5@hotmail.com
Abstract:
This study was conducted to determine morphological characteristics of newly selected lines from
Turkish sorghum (Sorghum bicolor L.) landraces. A total of 150 lines and 4 registered cultivars
collected from different gene banks and from the provinces where sorghum is cultivated in Turkey
were used as the plant material of the study. Sorghum lines were planted in augmented
experimental design in 2015 under ecological conditions of Kayseri province. Common
morphological characteristics (plant height, plant diameter, last internode length, flag leaf area,
panicle length, flowering period, maturation period, stay green rate, thousand-grain weight, grain
yield, glume cover ratio, mid trachea color, plant color, glume color, grain color, husking) were
investigated. Significant variations were observed in investigated characteristics.
Among the selected new lines, there were sorghum line with higher grain yields than the standard
cultivars, different vegetation durations to be grown in different regions, low glume cover ratios,
easy husking and high thousand-grain weight. Further research is recommended to test these newly
selected lines for human nutrition and animal feeding. These lines can also be used in further
breeding studies to develop new cultivars.
Keywords: Sorghum, New Line, Morphological Characterization
*This research was supported by TUBITAK (Project number: 113O914)74
A FACILE GROWTH OF CHALCOGENIDES BY SULFURIZATION OF
ELECTRODEPOSITED METAL LAYER(S) STACK
Sunay Turkdogana*
aUniversity Of Yalova
*sunayturkdogan@hotmail.com
Abstract:
A facile method to synthesize different chalcogenides has been developed and functional materials
for solar cell applications were synthesized utilizing this unique strategy. This method relies on
depositing metal layer(s) via electroplating followed by sulfurization in an appropriate ambient. In
our experiments we have used two different growth paths; one with direct sulfurization of metal
layer(s) and the other with oxidation of metal layer(s) followed by sulfurization (so called indirect
sulfurization). All these methods were used for the growth of ZnS and Cu2ZnSnS4 (CZTS) materials
and their structural, chemical and optical properties were figured out using several characterization
methods such as XRD, SEM, EDS, and UV-VIS. By utilizing the aforementioned methods we can easily
fabricate a thin film based solar cells which does not contain any toxic materials and composed of
abundant materials. It is important to note that this method is very promising when especially the
large scale production is our particular interest. Indirect sulfurization was found to produce higher
quality materials while direct sulfurization of metal layers leads to grow nonstoichiometric products.
The results show that CZTS and ZnS materials were grown with high crystal quality in wurtzite and
zincblende structure form, respectively. CZTS materials have 1.49eV direct-band gap energy which is
close to ideal for PV application, hydrophilic surface and possess p-type conductivity. By using our
method with different material combinations we can fabricate a low-cost thin film-based solar cell.
The proposed method is not only applicable to CZTS and ZnS, but also to some other semiconductor
materials possessing the potential of optoelectronic applications.
Keywords: Chalcogenides, Solar Cells, PV, CZTS, Zns, Electroplating
*75
A VERSATILE METHOD TO FORM 3D PN-JUNTIONS FOR POTENTIALLY
HIGHER PHOTON TO CURRENT CONVERSION EFFICIENCY
Sunay Turkdogana*
aUniversity Of Yalova
*sunayturkdogan@hotmail.com
Abstract:
A simple but versatile CVD method was utilized to grow any composition of ZnCdSSe quaternary
alloy materials in any morphology. The method relies on the temperature-dependent composition
deposition and the chemical composition is set by the substrate position (temperature) in a wide
temperature gradient. In this work, materials were grown with and without Au catalyst. Since it is
hard to achieve high Gibbs-free energy barrier in case of no catalyst materials are grown in thin film
form. When Au catalyst is used Gibbs-free energy between Au and solid becomes lower and higher
growth rate leads the growth of nanowire materials. We utilized both to form CdSe-rich thin film at
the first stage and then CdSe nanowire on top of it. First, thin film is formed and then a thin Au layer
is deposited via sputter coater. Au sensitized CdSe thin film substrate was placed at the same
temperature (560°C) region to grow nanowires on top of it. As a result, paddle comb-like structures
were obtained. In order to characterize the structures several characterization methods were carried
out and those show that our materials are grown with high crystalline quality in wurtzite form and
possess wide range tunable bandgap energy. It is important to note that those materials are
inherently grown in n-type and by depositing p-type layer on top of paddle comb-like layer, we can
create 3D pn-junctions. It is crucial to form this type of structures for solar cells fabricated by
materials with low diffusion length because generated electrons and holes with low diffusion length
cannot reach to the junction and lost after recombination. However, with our proposed method
carriers can always find a short-path in lateral direction to reach the junction and therefore the solar
conversion efficiency could be boosted for 3D pn-junctions compared to the planar pn-junctions.
Keywords: Thin Film, Nanowires, Zncdsse, 3D Pn-Junctions, Solar Cells, PV, Cvd
*76
IMPORTANCE OF PROBIOTICS IN DAILY DIET
Seniz Karabiyiklia*
aGaziosmanpasa University
*senizkarabiyikli@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Nowadays, consumers prefer to consume natural, safe, nutritive and also functional foods.
Functional foods could be simply described as a food group consumed as part of a usual diet and has
beneficial effects on health beyond the nutritive characteristic. The increasing demand on functional
foods results in their extended utility and it is also important for the food industry. Probiotic foods
are constituted an important part of functional foods. There are lots of studies on health benefit of
probiotic bacteria consumption. The positive contributions could be basically reviewed as; lactose
hydrolysis in lactose-intolerant individuals, resistance to enteric pathogens, reducing toxic
compounds from bacterial growth, anti-carcinogenic and anti-mutagenic activity, anti-hypertensive
effect and immune system activation. When the results of these studies considered it was concluded
that consuming probiotics a part of daily diet prevents lots of risks. Additionally, consuming probiotic
products with targeted therapeutic benefits can be a tasteful and pleasurable way of healthy life.
The maternal vaginal and intestinal flora constitutes the source of probiotic bacteria, which colonizes
the intestine of the newborn. After infancy probiotics are supplied by some foods (fermented foods)
and/or probiotic supplements (pharmaceutical products). Dairy products and dairy beverages have
long been considered as important vehicles for the consumption of probiotic bacteria.
Most of conscious consumers are convinced that they should consume probiotics in their daily life.
However, the main question in consumer’s mind is the probiotics should be consumed as
pharmaceutical products or in food products. The advantages and disadvantages of both way of
consumption should be considered. This review study could be contributive for confused consumers
and also for food industry that produce the probiotic foods to provide and keep their beneficial
effects.
Keywords: Functional Food, Probiotic Foods, Healthcare.
*None77
INACTIVATION OF MICROORGANISMS IN FOOD MATERIALS BY COLD
PLASMA TECHNOLOGY
Seniz Karabiyiklia*, Aslihan Demirdovena
aGaziosmanpasa University, Faculty Of Engineering, Department Of Food Engineering
*senizkarabiyikli@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Thermal food processes have some adverse effects on food quality, such as losses of nutritional
value and sensorial properties. And these adverse effects end up with marketing problems. For these
reasons, alternative non-thermal food processing techniques are gaining popularity. Several nonthermal food processing techniques, including pulsed electric fields, high pressure, ultrasound,
irradiation and etc. have been evaluated for inactivation of microorganism in food products. One of
the novel non-thermal processing technologies is cold plasma technology. In recent years cold
plasma applications has rapidly expanded into application of food materials. The advantages of this
technique are (i) uniform treatment, (ii) low temperature application, (iii) short processing time, (iv)
does not require chemicals and also don’t leave toxic residues. It uses energetic, reactive gases to
inactivate contaminating microorganism on fruits, vegetables, meats, poultry, water and packaging
materials. During last decades, cold plasma reactions also establish efficient inactivation of microorganisms (bacterial cells, spores, yeasts and moulds), and inactivation effect on Staphylococcus
aureus, Salmonella enteritidis, Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa,
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger in food materials has been studied.
The microbial inactivation is based on the damage of DNA in chromosomes. Cold plasma aided
deposition of bioactives and antimicrobials can be available for edible films and active packaging. In
this study, microbial inactivation mechanism of cold plasma technology and their effects on food
preservation is reviewed.
Keywords: Cold Plasma, Food, Microorganism, Microbial Inactivation.
*78
CREATING STABLE AND VERSATILE THIN ORGANIC FILMS/CITRATECAPPED GOLD NANOPARTICLES STRUCTURE FOR SENSORS
APPLICATIONS
Ali Yesildaga*
aKafkas Universty
*aliyesildag@yahoo.com
Abstract:
Electrochemically modified electrodes surfaces with monolayer of organic films have recently
become an immensely attractive materials in electronic and sensors devices. On the other hand gold
nanoparticles have been center of interest in applications of materials of electric and optics because
of their unique electrical, optical and magnetical properties. These two important structure as
combine with a common point to produce new materials will undoubtedly make a great
contribution.
In this work, we aimed to synthesize gold nanoparticles on organic molecules modified surfaces that
are stable and versatile thin films materyals for sensors aplications. Firstly, electrode surfaces such
as glassy carbon and silicon were covalently modified with pyridine molecules by using
electrochemical reduction of the 4-aminopyridine diazonium salt. Secondly Au nanoparticles were
synhesized on this surfaces which is including amine grups, also strong and covalently modified. The
properties of the modified films were investigated using voltammetric methods. The barrier
properties of modified electrodes surfaces were studied by cyclic voltammetry in the presence of
redox probes (Fe(CN)63- and Ru(NH3)63+). Characterization and morphological surfaces analysis
were examined by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM).
Finally, films/citrate-capped gold nanoparticles structure were examined for application of sensors
by using electrochemical methods.
Keywords: Pyridine, Citrate-Capped Gold Nanoparticles, Diazonium Salt, Sensors.
*This study was supported by the Scientific Research Projects Commission of KAFKAS UNIVERSITY (Project
numbers: 2016-FM-14).79
COVALENT MODIFICATION OF SI (111) ELECTRODES BY THIN
ORGANIC FILMS FOR CHEMICAL SENSORS APPLICATIONS
Ali Yesildaga*
AKafkas Universty
*aliyesildag@yahoo.com
Abstract:
In this work reports on an preparation of covalent modified of thin organic films on Si (111)
electrodes. The covalent modified organic thin films on Si (111) are prepared by a easy method.
Firstly, synthesis of 4-aminobenzylamine and 5-aminophenanthroline diazonium salt. Secondly,
covalently modification of benzylamine and phenanthroline thin films on Si (111) electrodes by using
electrochemical aryl diazonium modification method. Si (111) electrodes which modified by
phenanthroline and benzylamine thin films are characterized by using electroanalytical and
spectroscopic techniques. The properties of the modified thin organic films on Si (111) electrodes
are investigated by using voltammetric methods. The barrier properties of modified Si (111) surfaces
are studied by cyclic voltammetry in the presence of redox probes (Fe(CN)63- and Ru(NH3)63+). Also
the films of characterization and morphological analysis were examined by scanning electron
microscopy (SEM). Afterwards, covalently modified of thin organic films on Si (111) electrodes is
tested for chemical sensors by using electrochemical methods.
Keywords: Phenanthroline, Benzylamine, Covalent Modification, Diazonium Salt, Chemical Sensors.
*This study was supported by the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK), with a
project number:116Z08580
PARKING NEAREST TO LIGHT TRACKING VEHICLE WITH
MICROPROCESSOR-BASED SMART PARKING SYSTEM
Rukiye Uzuna*, Abdullah Cihad Ugura, Bayram Arana, Murat Sarikayaa, Irem Senyer Yapicia
aBulent Ecevit University
*rukiyeuzun67@gmail.com
Abstract:
With the increasing number of vehicles in the cities, the needs of the drivers for the parking spaces
have increased and the intelligent parking systems developed have contributed to the solution of
this problem. In this study, it was aimed that the drivers would identify the nearest free parking area
on an area and, as soon as possible, determine the appropriate parking place with less fuel
consumption. In this direction, a smart parking system designed to be installed in open or closed
areas has been established. Drivers coming to the car park entrance in the designed system; the
number of vacant parking spaces is displayed on an information screen, as well as the nearest
parking is provided by means of light emitting diodes (LEDs). In addition, in case of emergencies such
as possible fire in parking lots, in order to expel the drivers quickly from the car park area, the
entrance and exit barriers are opened with audible warning and the evacuation routes with LEDs are
drawn.
Keywords: Smart Parking System Arduino, Automatic Parking
*81
BREAKFAST PLATE DESIGN WITH STEP MOTOR CONTROL
Irem Senyer Yapicia*, Rukiye Uzuna, Emrah Demira
aBulent Ecevit University
*senyerirem@gmail.com
Abstract:
In this application study, it was aimed that the individuals within the food departments of big
corporations could get the food they wished at their own direction without walking round the table.
A breakfast plate, which would be conveniently used in daily life, was designed with this aim.
Designed breakfast plate comprised of four segments and four buttons were placed at each edge of
the table on behalf of these four zones. Thus, when the button is pressed, the desired part of the
plate is brought to the front of the individual. Step motor was used for performing rotational
movement of breakfast plate at an intended direction. The control of step motor was carried out
with Arduino. Apart from Arduino, ULN2003 integrated unit was used for motor driving step.
Therefore, desired segment was brought right to the individual by pressing the button from any
edge of the table at an intended direction.
Keywords: Arduino; Breakfast Plate; Step Motor
*82
SORPTION, DIFFUSIVITY AND PERMEABILITY PROPERTIES OF
POLYMER ACTIVE PACKAGING FILMS INCORPORATED NISIN AND
CHITOSAN
Sevgin Diblana*, Burcu Gokkaya Erdemb, Sevim Kayab
aAdana Science And Technology University
bGaziantep University
*sdiblan@adanabtu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Sorption and diffusivity properties of 2 different active (LDPE/polyamide/LDPE-2%chitosan (CTS-film)
and nisin (N-film)) and control films (LDPE/polyamide/LDPE) were investigated using dynamic vapor
sorption analyzer (DVS) at 25°C. GAB and Peleg was found to be the best equation to describe
sorption behaviors among other models (Oswin, and Halsey equations). Moisture diffusivity (D) of
the films was examined from sorption data at each step of RH range studied. It was found that D
values of the N-films were lower than that of control films while D values of CTS-film were similar,
especially the difference was important at higher RH’s than 60% RH for N-film. This could be
explained with nisin adsorbs moisture so the diffusion of moisture was decreased. The N-film had
lower permeability and higher solubility values indicating the amount of moisture distributed in
polymer films but not passed, it could be hold by antimicrobial agent, therefore while permeability
and D values of N-films were lower comparing with those of control and CTS-film; solubility was
found to be higher. On the other hand chitosan has been well known for a high compatibility with
other component incorporated with films. This can be the reason why D values of control and CTSfilm were not significantly different.
Keywords: Active Packaging, Sorption, Diffusion And Permeability
*83
APPLICATIONS OF RESPONSE SURFACE METHODOLOGY TO OPTIMIZE
PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT IN EXTRUSION COOKING IN CEREAL
TECHNOLOGY
Burcak Ucara, Sevgin Diblana*, Mehmet Sertac Ozerb
aAdana Science And Technology University
bCukurova University
*sdiblan@adanabtu.edu.tr
Abstract:
This review discussed the recent application of response surface methodology (RSM) for products
manufactured from cereals. RSM is a statistical method that is combination of mathematical and
statistical theories is useful to improve, develop and optimize processes. RSM is used widely in food
industry especially in cereal technology which is a one of major branch of food engineering since
working area of cereal technology is suitable for formulation of new products. The primary
consideration for selecting and eating a food commodity is the product’s palatability or eating
quality and secondary is nutrition and wholesomeness. Extrusions combines several unit operations
including mixing, shearing, conveying, heating, puffing and partial drying, depending on the extruder
design and process conditions and RSM helps optimize these quality factors and conditions with
minimum trial and expenses. The advantages of extrusion cooking that are widely used to produce
expanded snacks, modified starches, baby foods, pasta etc. are versatility, high productivity, low
cost, consumer acceptable product shapes, high product quality and product of new food with no
undesirable result. In studies, central composite rotatable design has been frequently preferred and
they had been concluded that the central composite design and response surface methodology
enabled the determination of optimal operating conditions considering R2, adj-R2, pre-R2, Adeq.
precision, PRESS, and CV (lack of fit > 0.1; R2 > 0.94; adj- R2-pre-R2 < 0.2; max. PRESS; CV < 10; preR2 > 0.7; Adeq. precision > 4). Some researchers have been used central composite face-centered
design which exclude axial points in design and eliminate rotatability of design. There are lots of
studies interested in extrusion cooking optimization and these continue increasingly since there are
lots of factors can be changed according to techniques and RSM has been successful to obtain high
quality product in terms of researches criteria.
Keywords: Extrusion, Response Surface Methodology, Optimization
*84
POTENTIAL APPLICATIONS OF CEPHALARIA SAPONINS IN INDUSTRY
Suheyla Kirmizigula*, Veysel Umut Celenkb, Nazli Sarikahyaa
aDepartment Of Chemistry, Faculty Of Science, Ege University
bCenter For Drug Research And Development And Pharmacokinetic Applications, Ege
University
*suheyla.kirmizigul@ege.edu.tr
Abstract:
Nowadays great interest has been shown to saponins and their pharmacological, chemical and
industrial properties. Their surfactant properties and biological activities proved the commercially
significance of saponins with expanding applications in food, cosmetics, and pharmaceutical sectors.
Saponins also have agricultural usages because of their antifungal and insecticidal effects1-2.
Saponins are a diverse group of compounds distributed in the nature and in Cephalaria species. This
genus (Caprifolicaeae) has 94 species which widely spread out in Mediterranean Region3.
Furthermore, Cephalaria species have many activities such as antimicrobial, antifungal, hemolytic,
immunomodulatory and cytotoxic activities4-7.
This study provides the properties and applications of Cephalaria hirsuta and Cephalaria procera
saponins with special focus on their purification and characterization. The most biologically active
extract was examined by suitable chemical and chromatographic methods (CC, VLC, MPLC, HPLC,
GC-MS). The structures of the compounds were identified by further spectroscopic and chemical
studies (1D 2D NMR, HR ESIMS). This is the first report for these species.
Keywords: Saponins, Cephalaria, Industrial Applications
*2015/ FEN/06185
CYTOTOXIC, IMMUNOMODULATORY AND HEMOLYTIC ACTIVITIES OF
SAPONINS
Nazli Sarikahyaa*, Ayse Nalbantsoyb, Suheyla Kirmizigula
aDepartment Of Chemistry, Faculty Of Science, Ege University
aDepartment Of Bioengineering, Faculty Of Engineering, Ege University
*nazli.sarikahya@ege.edu.tr
Abstract:
Saponins isolated from a number of plants possess a broad spectrum of biological and
pharmacological activities in vitro and in vivo bioassays. The recent investigations and findings on
biological activity studies have mostly focused on immunomodulatory, hemolytic and cytotoxic
properties of saponins1-3.
Considering the great potential of saponins as bioactive agents, we investigated the cytotoxic,
hemolytic and immunomodulatory activities of nineteen triterpenoid saponins and crude n-butanol
extracts from the aerial parts of eight Cephalaria species from Turkey, for the first time. HeLa, A549,
and a normal cell line HEK293 were used for testing cytotoxicity using MTT method.
Immunomodulatory activity was performed in stimulated whole blood cells by PMA plus ionomycin.
Hemolytic activity was assessed on human erythrocytes.
As a result, almost all hederagenin and oleanane type saponins displayed significant hemolysis.
Monodesmosidic hederagenin type saponins were the most active compounds against lung cancer
cells and exhibited greater activity than standard commercial chemotherapy drug doxorubicin.
Besides that some saponins induced remarkable IL-1ß secretion in stimulated whole blood cells by
PMA plus ionomycin4.
Keywords: Cytotoxic, Immunomodulatory, Hemolytic Activities, Saponins
*86
COMPARISON OF PREDICTION PERFORMANCE OF DATA MINING
ALGORITHMS AND RESPONSE SURFACE EQUATIONS
Hamza Tasa*, Ibrahim Fadil Soykoka
aManisa Celal Bayar University
*hamza.tas36@gmail.com
Abstract:
There are numerous mathematical and statistical models to process data. Data mining is a process
used by the researhers to convert raw data to valuable and potantially useful information and
consists of there tasks: classification and prediction, clustering and associating rule mining.
Classification is a data mining technique and because of its high prediction ability, it is being
preffered in many areas. Because of the high cost and time consuming experiments in mechanical
engineering, the estimation of results of experiments through data mining will reduce the cost of
time and money. Design of experiment (DOE) is a technique that includes recognition and statement
of the problem, chose of factors, levels and ranges, selection of response variable(s), chose of
design, conducting the experiment, statictical analysis and then drawing conclusion. Box-Behnken
design of response surface methodology is one of the type of DOE. Building a regression model
(approximation) based on the empirical data is the aim of response surface methodology. In this
study, classification methods of data mining such as Multilayer Perceptron and Random Forest
algorithms were applied on the experimental data obtained from a present study that deals with the
optimal design of soft body armour materials by treating Kevlar fabrics with silica nano-particle
based shear thickening fluid. This study also compared these classification algorithms with final
response surface equations (regression model) in terms of relative absolute error measure. Results
indicated that Random Forest algorithm gave better prediction performance than the others.
Keywords: Prediction Performance, Data Mining, Response Surface Methodology,
*87
INVESTIGATION OF FREE MOTION OF FLAP FOR A VERTICAL AXIS
WIND TURBINE BLADE
Ilyas Karasua, Mustafa Ozdenb*, Mustafa Serdar Gencb, Khalida Sekhouneb
aAdana Science And Technology University
bErciyes University
*mustfozden@gmail.com
Abstract:
The scope of this study was to investigate the effect of flap motion on wind turbine blades
aerodynamically. In this study, free movement of a flap on horizontal axis wind turbine blade was
investigated. Aerodynamic forces generated by flow caused motion of flap. The motion of flap was
modelled transiently with use of SixDof and dynamic mesh features via ANSYS Fluent. Time
dependent changing of lift and drag forces due to flap motion were obtained. Different cases were
carried out in conjunction with different wind speeds and turbulence models. Results were
visualized with contours and streamlines. Then, results of turbulence models were compared with
each other. Aerodynamic variations both above and at the wake of airfoil was investigated by free
motion of flap. Flaps such as in aviation sector was used to control the aerodynamic performance of
wind turbine blades. Consequently, it was shown that the flap could use to increase the efficiency of
the wind turbine.
Keywords: Flap,Flow Control,Cfd,Wind Turbine
*88
IMPROVING CLUSTER ANALYSIS USING K-MEANS BASED AND
WEIGHTED CLUSTERING ENSEMBLES
Pelin Yildirima*, Derya Birantb
aManisa Celal Bayar University, Department Of Software Engineering
bDokuz Eylul University, Department Of Computer Engineering
*pelin@cs.deu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Clustering ensemble integrates multiple clustering models to improve the quality of the results of
individual clustering algorithms. The study presented in this paper demonstrates the ability of
obtaining consistent, reliable and accurate clustering results provided by this paradigm. Considering
this motivation, it investigates different K-means based clustering ensembles to determine the best
way for building an ensemble (i.e., ensemble size, the diversity of the ensemble members, setting
the weights). As a result of researches, this study proposes a novel clustering ensemble approach
that use k-means algorithm with different parameters, named wEKDIM (weighted Ensemble Kmeans with Distance and Initialization Methods). wEKDIM runs K-means algorithm many times with
different distance metrics (Euclidean and Manhattan) and different initializations (Random, Kmeans++, Canopy and Farthest first) and then combines all of the available clustering partitions to
get the final clustering result using a weighted consensus function. We believe that our approach is
the first attempt to design a cluster ensemble in such a way. In the experimental studies, the
proposed K-means based clustering ensemble was tested on 18 different real-world datasets which
are well-known and broadly used in machine learning. The results show that the proposed k-means
based ensemble approach (wEKDIM) achieves better clustering performance on average than an
individual k-means clustering algorithm in terms of accuracy.
Keywords: Clustering Ensemble, Distance Metrics, Initialization Methods, K-Means, Unsupervised
Machine Learning.
*89
DETERMINATION OF TURBIDITY IN FILYOS STREAM WATER BY
ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORK
Berna Aksoya*, Ismail Hakki Ozolcera, Emrah Doganb, Onur Dundara
aBulent Ecevit University
bSakarya University
*berna.oaksoy@beun.edu.tr
Abstract:
Water is in an endless cycle, which is source of life for human beings. During this cycle, substances
that are contaminated in water cause physical, chemical or biological alteration of the water’s
natural features, that leads to water pollution and therefore causes the environmental balance to
deteriorate over time. This quality changes cause deteriorations in ecosystem. For this reason, it is
important to investigate the water quality in rivers and water reservoirs which are close to
settlement areas. In this study, surface water quality measurements were carried out at
downstream of the Filyos stream, which forms the largest sub-basin in the Western Karadeniz Basin,
at intervals of thirty days in one year period between September 2015 and August 2016. In the
scope of the study, zinc, chromium, calcium, aluminium, manganese and turbidity parameters
measured in the laboratory and estimation of the turbidity parameter basaed on parameters of zinc,
chromium, calcium, aluminium, manganese was performed by artificial neural networks.
Keywords: Filyos Stream, Heavy Metal, Turbidity, Artificial Neural Networks, Western Karadeniz
Basin
*90
COMPARABLE STUDIES OF DYNAMIC MAGNETIC AND HYSTERETIC
PROPERTIES OF THE ISING-TYPE CORE/SHELL NANOWIRES SYSTEMS*
Mehmet Ertasa, Ersin Kantarb, Behiye Bayarbay Kantara, Mustafa Keskina*
aErciyes University
bBozok University
*keskin@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
We study and compare the dynamic magnetic properties in a cubic, hexagonal and cylindrical
core/shell nanowire within the mean-field theory based on the Glauber-type stochastic dynamics.
The cubic, hexagonal and cylindrical nanowires with core/shell morphology are described by the
spin-2 Ising particles in the core and the spin-5/2 Ising particles in the surface shell. We investigate
the influence of the exchange interaction (JS) and crystal-field (DS) in the shell on dynamic magnetic
properties of theses systems. In particular, we study the thermal behavior of total magnetizations
and hysteresis loop properties. We found that for small values of JS, the Curie temperatures are very
high for the cylindrical nanowire (CIN) system and approximately equal for the cubic nanowire (CUN)
and hexagonal nanowire (HIN) and for larger values of JS the Curie temperatures are same for the
CIN and HIN in which higher than the Curie temperature for the CUN. Increasing the DS values the
Curie temperatures of CIN, HIN and CUN also increase and the Curie temperatures for the CIN higher
and the CUN is lower. On the other hand, we always obtain the elliptic shape hysteresis loops for the
CIN, CU, HIN and the loop areas are larger for bigger JS and smaller DS values.
* This work was supported by the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK)
(Grant No: 116R004) and Erciyes University Research funds (Grant No: FDA- 2017-7701).
Keywords: Magnetic Core/Shell Nanostructures; Dynamic Magnetic Hysteresis; Mean-Field Theory
Based On The Glauber-Type Stochastic Dynamics
*This work was supported by the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK) (Grant No:
116R004) and Erciyes91
THE MICROSTRUCTURAL AND MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF AS-CAST
AND MELT-SPUN AL-5ZN-1MG ALLOY
Ercan Karakosea, Mustafa Keskina*
aErciyes University
*keskin@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
Al-Zn-Mg alloy is one of the aluminum alloys that has been used in many various industrial
implementations, such as in automobile applications, aerospace manufacture, weapon and
automobile industries due to their high mechanical properties, light weight, good castability and
excellent corrosion resistance in most environments. Al-1Zn-2.5Mg alloy was prepared by the
conventional casting. They were further processed using the melt-spinning technique with different
wheel speeds of (10, 50 and 80) m/s and characterized by the X-ray diffraction (XRD), scanning
electron microscopy (SEM) together with energy dispersive spectroscopy (EDS), differential thermal
analysis (DTA) and the Vickers microhardness tester. The SEM analysis showed that the conventional
solidified samples have a dendritic ?-Al solid solution and non-equilibrium phases. On the other
hand, the rapid solidified (RS) ribbons showed more homogeneity than that in the conventional
solidified samples. The X- ray diffraction patterns for the conventional solidified samples revealed
three phases namely, two intermetallic phases (Al12Mg and MgZn2) and the ?–Al phase. While no
peaks corresponding to the intermetallic phases for the rapid solidified ribbons obtained by 50 and
80 m/s wheel speeds. The melting temperature for the rapid solidified ribbons of 10 and 80 m/s
wheel speeds were 654 ºC and 656 ºC, respectively. RS samples were measured using a
microhardness test device. The dependence of microhardness HV on the solidification rate (V) was
analysed. These results showed that with the increasing values of V, the values of HV increased.
Keywords: Al-1Zn-2.5Mg Alloy, Rapid Solidification, Microstructure, Microhardness.
*The part of the work was supported by Erciyes University Research funds, Grant No: FYL- 2017-7348.92
A HYBRID MULTIPLE CRITERIA DECISION MAKING APPROACH FOR
ACADEMIC STAFF SELECTION
Ahmet Aktasa*, Billur Ecerb, Mehmet Kabaka, Metin Dagdevirena
aIndustrial Engineering Department, Gazi University
bIndustrial Engineering Department, Yildirim Beyazit University
*aaktas@gazi.edu.tr
Abstract:
Faculty members, lecturers and research assistants are the academic personnel in universities. Both
of these two types of academicians have different responsibilities in educational processes and
research activities. Employment of each type of personnel requires to consider different criteria
simultaneously and this makes the selection of the best staff to be a complex decision. In such
complex situations, multiple criteria decision making approaches are very useful to obtain a
compromise decision. In this study, research assistant selection problem is considered. Because of
the requirement of considering several decision criteria simultaneously, research assistant selection
problem is modeled as a multiple criteria decision making problem. Decision criteria are considered
as Graduate Record Examination Score, Language Exam Score, Grade Point Average, Research
Experience and University Entrance Exam Rank. Importance degree of these criteria are determined
by using AHP (Analytic Hierarchy Process) and applicants are evaluated by using ELECTRE
(Elimination and Choice Translating Reality English) methods. A case study in a state university is
given to demonstrate the applicability of proposed methodology.
Keywords: Personnel Selection, AHP, Electre
*93
A NEW INTEGER PROGRAMMING MODEL FOR INVERSE MULTIPLE
CRITERIA SORTING PROBLEM
Billur Ecera, Ahmet Aktasb*, Metin Dagdevirenb, Mehmet Kabakb
aIndustrial Engineering Department, Yildirim Beyazit University
bIndustrial Engineering Department, Gazi University
*aaktas@gazi.edu.tr
Abstract:
Multi-criteria sorting problem deals with the assignment of objects to predetermined classes based
on a number of criteria. Some applications of this problem can be seen in the field of healthcare
systems, production systems and economy. Inverse multi-criteria sorting problem is interested in the
assessment of the changes in the states of the objects in order to obtain better classes for objects.
The only study in the literature dealing this problem is a binary integer programming model, which is
proposed to assess certain actions for the changes to be made on the objects. The main aim in this
study is to investigate the effect on classification if the change of object states occurs in integers. So,
a new integer programming model is proposed. To test the proposed model, a case study on state
hospitals in Turkey including four criteria (number of doctors, number of nurses, number of beds,
number of medical devices types) is conducted. The results show that the proposed model can
support decisions of healthcare system managers in determining improvement policies.
Keywords: Inverse Multi-Criteria Sorting Problem, Integer Programming, Health Systems
*94
AN OPTIMIZATION MODEL FOR PRODUCTION PLANNING IN AN
INTERNATIONAL CHEMICAL COMPANY
Sema Demiray Kirmizia, Murat Colaka, Gulsen Aydin Keskina*
aKocaeli University
*gaydin@kocaeli.edu.tr
Abstract:
Conventional production planning aims to provide effective usage of resources such as manpower,
material and machine in order to satisfy customer demand. It is aimed to minimize the costs and
maximize profit in the production planning process. At this point, inventory and backorder quantities
constituting cost items have become significant in this process. On the other hand, since each
production environment has its own constraints, it is necessary to develop solution approaches
according to these constraints. Mathematical programming models are effectively utilized to solve
optimization problems like determination of production quantity and inventory level. This study was
realized in an international company operating in the chemical industry. A mathematical model with
maximization objective was developed to solve production planning problem for a product group
and 6 months period considering production constraints of this company. This model includes 5
decision variables and 8 constraints and has been solved by means of IBM ILOG CPLEX 10.0 in order
to find optimal solution for this production planning problem. As a result, optimal production,
inventory and backorder quantities have been determined through mathematical programming
model.
Keywords: Production Planning, Integer Programming, Mathematical Modelling, Inventory Level,
Backorder
*95
A STATISTICAL APPROACH OF NI ELEMENT EFFECT ON COST SAVING
IN HOT DIP GALVANIZING PROCESS
Ferhat Sadaya*, Sibel Daglilara
aYildiz Technical University / Turkey
*ferhat.saday@windowslive.com
Abstract:
This investigation focused on the nickel effect as well as Ni tablet and Ni powder applications by
means of a statistical approach. The Minitab program was used for Multi regression Model, main
effect analysis, correlation analysis for the assessment of the parameters. The kettle composition
was observed for six months. During this period, about 500 samples with Si content <0,03 % wt. and
Si content 0,14<Si<0,25 % weight of steel materials were used. The materials were chosen from the
same manner with industrial application, for low silicon (pipes), high silicon (equal angles) were
used. The kettle compositions were analyzed with an optical emission device, Ni content in the ash
and the dip dross contents analyzed by XRF analyzer. Coating thickness, surface quality and bath
parameters such as dipping time, bath chemical content, material types were analyzed with a
multiple regression model and statistical methods to be able to have a pattern of coating thickness
estimation by the chemical analysis. From this investigation, it showed that Ni powder is more
effective compared with the Ni tablet and if lead and bismuth used together, lead could lose its
positive effect on coating at the existence of the bismuth.
Keywords: Hot Dip Galvanizing; Nickel Effect; Kettle Composition; Ni Tablet; Ni Powder
*96
IN PURSUIT OF CROWDFUNDING PROJECTS SUCCESS CHANCE
ESTIMATION USING CORRELATIONAL TOPIC MODELING ALGORITHM
Ramin Khatamia*, Fatemeh Hassania, Morikawa Hiroyukia
aThe University Of Tokyo
*khatami@mlab.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
Abstract:
Crowdfunding has become an increasingly important channel for innovators to raise funds and be
the ultimate beneficiary of their own innovative ideas. Existing studies have tried to estimate
projects funding success based on basic numerical features such as funding goal, duration, word
count in project description, etc. . In this work we have investigated impact of similarities between
project description text in success chance estimation. Novelty of this research is utilization of
correlational topic modeling algorithm which takes into account projects success effect in topics
formulation. Our empirical results are based on 28,000 technological projects scrapped from a
popular online crowdfunding platform Indiegogo. It shows the combination of our model with small
other numerical features in a classification algorithm like support vector machine can improve Area
Under the Curve (AUC) of the crowdfunding projects success as much as 11% compared to
conventional methods. This works provides evidence that in online crowdfunding platform, users
interests gather around projects with certain features. It proves that those features can be
effectively extracted by a sophisticated text analytic algorithm without a need on any external
source for de-noising of the topics. Findings of this research are beneficial for project owners to
better assess the risk involved with the investment of their time and money into a specific project.
Keywords: Crowdfunding, Predictive Modeling, Correlational Topic Modeling, Text Analysis
*This study is supported by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science97
A CFD STUDY OF SEPARATING REATTACHING FLOWS
Taner Cosguna*, Ahmet Yurtsevena, Nurten Vardara
aYildiz Technical University
*tanercosgun@gmail.com
Abstract:
Separation and reattachment of turbulent flows can be seen in many engineering applications and
play an important role. Diameter change in internal flows like pipes, combustion chambers or
chemical reactors or separation in external flows around cars, foils or buildings create a recirculation
region and changes the flow characteristics. The benchmark configuration to observe these type of
flows called backward facing step flow. In this study, turbulent flow over backward facing step is
numerically investigated via computational fluid dynamics. Flow field is simulated as 3D and time
dependent. governing equations (Reynold Averaged Navier Stokes Equations ) are discretizated
using finite volume approach. First, numerically obtained results are comprised and validated with
experimental ones, then the flow conditions are changed to examine the variation of separation
zone. Velocity and pressure fields are reported as a result of separating behavior in different
conditions. Besides, relation between back-step and practical flows are investigated.
Keywords: Seperating Flows, Computational Fluid Dynamics, Backward Facing Step Flow
*98
PERFORMANCE OF ZERO-FORCING RECEIVE BEAMFORMING WITH
SIGNAL SPACE DIVERSITY IN THE PRESENCE OF CHANNEL
ESTIMATION ERRORS
Serdar Ozyurta*
aFaculty Of Engineering And Natural Sciences, Ankara Yildirim Beyazit University
*sozyurt@ybu.edu.tr
Abstract:
This work considers a wireless communication scenario with t and r (2 ? t ? r) antennas at the
transmitter and receiver, respectively. Such a system is known as a t-by-r multiple-input multipleoutput system and has the potential to increase the channel capacity by a factor of minimum of t
and r without additional bandwidth/time/power resources. One of the spatial multiplexing
techniques that can be used for this purpose is zero-forcing receive beamforming (ZFRBF). ZFRBF has
the advantage of achieving full spatial multiplexing gain with a relatively low-complexity. However, it
is seriously vulnerable to any kind of additive noise and thus offers a limited error performance. As a
solution to this problem, we here study a combination of ZFRBF with signal space diversity (SSD)
assuming that the number of simultaneous substreams is two. SSD provides error performance
enhancement with no extra use of bandwidth/time slots and almost no additional complexity. We
examine the performance of ZFRBF with SSD for binary phase shift keying (BPSK) modulation over
slow flat Rayleigh fading channels. No channel state information (CSI) is available at the transmitter
and the receiver has CSI with channel estimation errors. Such a scenario is quite practical and
reflects an important practical impairment. The estimation errors are modeled by using a statistical
error model parameterized by the correlation between the actual and estimated channel vectors.
We show that the inclusion of SSD increases the immunity of the original ZFRBF system against the
noise to a great extent. Moreover, the proposed technique (ZFRBF/SSD) is shown to yield substantial
signal-to-noise ratio gains beyond the original ZFRBF scheme without SSD.
Keywords: Multiple-Input Multiple-Output, Zero-Forcing Receive Beamforming, Signal Space
Diversity, Channel State Information.
*99
SURFACE CHARACTERIZATION OF BORONIZED PURE TUNGSTEN
Ibrahim Gunesa*, Tayfun Uygunoglua
aAfyon Kocatepe University
*3gunes3@gmail.com
Abstract:
In the present study, effect of the boriding heat treatment process on surface properties of pure
Tungsten has been investigated. Boriding was performed in a solid medium consisting of Ekabor-II
powders at 1123 and 1323K for 2 and 6 h. The boride layer was characterized by optical microscopy,
X-ray diffraction technique and the micro-Vickers hardness tester. X-ray diffraction analysis of
boride layers on the surface of the steels revealed the existence of WB2, WB3, WB4 and W2B5
compounds. Depending on the chemical composition of substrates, the boride layer thickness on the
surface of the Only parameter that changes is boronizing time. Thus, thickness of boride layer
changes with boronizing time. WB boride layers ranged in thickness from 16 to 64 µm. The hardness
of the boride compounds formed on the surface of the Tungsten ranged from 1584 to 1867 HV0,1,
whereas Vickers hardness values of the untreated Tungsten were 128 HV0,1.
Keywords: Pure Tungsten, Boride Layer, XRD, Micro-Hardness
*100
THE CHARACTERIZATION OF PACK BORONIZED W-CU BASED
TUNGSTEN ALLOY
Ibrahim Gunesa*, Tayfun Uygunoglua
aAfyon Kocatepe University
*3gunes3@gmail.com
Abstract:
In the present study, effect of the boriding heat treatment process on surface properties of 80W-
20Cu Tungsten alloy has been investigated. Boriding was performed in a pack medium consisting of
Ekabor-II powders at 1073 and 1173K for 3 and 7 h. The boride layer was characterized by optical
microscopy, X-ray diffraction technique and the micro-Vickers hardness tester. X-ray diffraction
analysis of boride layers on the surface of the steels revealed the existence of CuO, Cu2O, WB2, and
WB3 compounds. Depending on the chemical composition of substrates, the boride layer thickness
on the surface of the only parameter that changes is boronizing temperature and time. Thus,
thickness of boride layer changes with boronizing time. WB boride layers ranged in thickness from 7
to 24 µm. The hardness of the boride compounds formed on the surface of the Tungsten ranged
from 1456 to 1694 HV0,1, whereas Vickers hardness values of the untreated Tungsten alloy were 87
HV0,1.
Keywords: W-Cu Based Tungsten Alloy, Boride Layer, XRD, Micro-Hardness
*101
A HYBRID APPROACH FOR CAPACITY PLANNING AND PRODUCTION
SCHEDULING IN A TEXTILE COMPANY
Semra Tunalia*, Ezgi Basikoglu Ceryanb
aIzmir University Of Economics
bJettork Makina A.S.-Hytorc, Izmir, Turkey
*semra.tunali@ieu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Due to an increasing trend towards higher product variety, small lot sizes and shorter lead times,
manufacturing companies are forced to utilize their resources as efficiently as possible so that they
can remain competitive in the global markets. Increasing the efficiency of production plants requires
employing sound methods to deal with capacity planning and production scheduling problem. In this
study, a hybrid approach integrating simulation modeling and mathematical programming has been
proposed to deal with capacity planning and scheduling problem in a textile company. This research
has been motivated by the potential of mathematical programming to provide optimal or near
optimal solutions to the capacity planning problem and also by simulation to realistically model the
stochastic and dynamic features of a real industrial system. This two-phase hybrid approach was
implemented at a leading textile company operating in Izmir, Turkey which produces mostly denim
apparel. The manufacturing units of this textile company comprise five departments which are
cutting, sewing, washing, quality control and finishing with a total capacity of 100.000 units/month.
Among these five departments, the sewing department is the most critical department. Because the
amount of time the jobs spend in this department is largest as compared to others. Hence, any
efficiency gained in this department will increase the production capacity of the company a lot.
Hence, this study has been carried out in the sewing department and the benefits to be gained (i.e.,
better delivery performance, increased resource utilization) were demonstrated through a case
study.
Keywords: Mixed-Integer Linear Programming, Simulation Modeling, Capacity Planning, Production
Scheduling, Textile Production
*102
COMPARISON STUDY ON LAY-UP CONFIGURATIONS FOR COMPOSITE
WIND TURBINE BLADE
Mustafa Serdar Genca, Ramazan Ozkana*, Burak Karakayaa
aErciyes University
*ozkanramazan@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
Wind turbine technologies, one of these new and renewable energy technologies, have begun to
develop rapidly. Wind turbines are one of the best ways of solving the world's energy needs. The
structural designs of the blades, which play a key role in the wind turbine components and directly
affect the energy efficiency of the turbine, are very significant. Generally, the blades of large-scale
wind turbines are produced from composite materials. Despite the complicated structures,
composite blades can be structurally designed in terms of composite material type, composite layer
thickness and number, orientation directions of fibers. In this study, different lay-up configurations
for composite wind turbine blade were compared after numerical analysis carried out. In the
numerical analysis, ANSYS FLUENT was used for both aerodynamic and structural modeling. In the
aerodynamic modeling, the flow over the wind turbine analyzed and pressure distribution over the
turbine was obtained. Then, the structural analysis was done based on the pressure distributions.
Fiber angle has an effect on strength of the blade. It was concluded that bidirectional lay-up
configurations have more strength than unidirectional configurations.
Keywords: Wind Energy, Wind Turbine Blades, Composite Materials, Lay-Up Configuration
*103
PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF LEVY FLIGHT MECHANISM IN
DRAGONFLY OPTIMIZATION AND GRAVITATIONAL SEARCH
ALGORITHM
Hakan Gulcana*, Cigdem Acia
aMersin University
*hgulcan333@gmail.com
Abstract:
Dragonfly Optimization Algorithm (DOA) and Gravitational Search Algorithm (GSA) are heuristic
optimization methods which inspired by animals' social behaviors and gravitational force. However,
these optimization algorithms can not get good results for some benchmark functions. Some
random flight methods have been applied to these algorithms to solve this problem. In this paper,
the performance of classical random flight and Levy Flight mechanism is compared on DOA and GSA
algorithms to prevent the algorithms from sticking to local minimum of benchmark functions. The
comparison is done total of 15 benchmark functions. After applying Levy Flight mechanism to DOA,
12 out of 15 benchmark functions have at least 50% certain success, while 1 is the same with
original. After applying Levy Flight mechanism to GSA, 13 out of 15 benchmark functions (with
various dimensions and agent counts), at least 60% had a definite success, while 1 had the same
result as the original. The results showed that Levy Flight mechanism significantly reduced the
problem of premature convergence of flying swarms and the number of sticks to local minimums.
Levy Flight has a good ability to expand the field of exploration and to screen the area of
exploitation.
Keywords: Levy Flight; Random Flight; Dragonfly Optimization; Gravitational Search.
*104
INVESTIGATION OF THE CHANGE OF MECHANICAL AND PHYSICAL
PROPERTIES OF AA7075 ALLOY BY RRA HEAT TREATMENT APPLIED
AT DIFFERENT TIME AND TEMPERATURE
Gokhan Ozera, Ahmet Karaaslanb*
aFatih Sultan Mehmet University-Aluteam
bYildiz Technical University
*akaraaslan.ytu@gmal.com
Abstract:
The AA7075 alloy is an important material that is widely used today with its high strength and low
weight. The heat treatment of this alloy plays an important role especially in the aerospace industry
and high strength parts. T6 heat treatment is applied to give the AA7075 alloy strength, but as a
result of this heat treatment, the material becomes susceptible to corrosion. The heat treatment to
obtain the corrosion resistance decreases the mechanical strength. At this point, a special heat
treatment, called RRA heat treatment, improves both the mechanical and corrosion properties of
the AA7075 alloy.
In this study, an AA7075 alloy in T6 condition was retrogated at 180, 280 and 370°C for 1, 30, 50, 90
and 120 minutes. After retrogression, the samples were aged again under T6 conditions. The
mechanical properties of the samples were determined by V-Charpy, hardness and tensile tests, and
their physical properties by electrical conductivity tests. Microstructures of the samples were
determined by light metal microscope and SEM. The results showed that the effect of the
temperature and the duration of the RRA on the mechanical and physical properties is related to the
precipitates at the grain boundary.
Keywords: AA7075, RRA, Mechanical Properties, Physical Properties
*105
A RESEARCH FOR DISPOSITION OF MAKING INNOVATION AMONG
DEPARTMENTS
Murat Oturakcia*
aAdana Science And Technology University
*moturakci@adanabtu.edu.tr
Abstract:
With the advancement of information technology, innovation term has started to become focus
point in industries. Companies have started to pay attention to innovation management with
continuous research in development and improvement. Since, innovation management practices
have become vital for companies, the necessity of contribution of all departments became critical.
The aim of this study is to examine the relationship between the disposition of making innovation
and the level of innovation performance achievement of company departments in Adana, Turkey.
According to the objective, comparisons have been made among 300 white collars of 12
departments of 4 companies in Adana province. Effect of the parameters of employees such as age,
gender, education level and duration of work on disposition of making innovation have been
observed through hypothesis. Hypothesis of the study are analyzed with t test, Chi-Square and
correlation tests with the help of SPSS. According to the results, there is a significant relationship
between disposition of making innovation and the level of innovation performance achievement
among departments as well a significant relationship between disposition of making innovation and
the parameters which have been selected for the study.
Keywords: Innovation, Innovation Performance, Disposition Of Innovation.
*106
PREDICTION OF R&D BUDGETS WITH TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
METHOD
Murat Oturakcia*, Cansu Dagsuyua
aAdana Science And Technology University
*moturakci@adanabtu.edu.tr
Abstract:
R&D studies in industry have great emphasis on the development of science and technology. To
conduct R&D studies, besides of knowledge, budget, employee and equipment are needed. Each of
those necessities creates certain costs to companies. Every public or private company determines
their own R&D budget for following years and performs their activities according to that certain
budget. The objective of this study is to predict R&D budgets of companies, since it plays a key role
for the development of companies. In this study, R&D activities were divided into three different
sectors, financial and non-financial companies, state and higher education institutions. R&D cost
items are divided into two groups as current (employee and other) and capital (machine and fixed)
expenditures and those items are predicted with time series analysis model. Mean error, mean
absolute error and root mean square error are used as performance measurements of the models.
According to the results of the study, prediction models are available to use for R&D budget
determination. In this way, those models play as a guidance role for R&D budget for next years.
Keywords: R&D, Budget, Time Series Analysis, Prediction
*107
INFLUENCE OF DIFFERENT SI LEVELS ON MECHANICAL PROPERTIES
OF ALUMINIUM CASTING ALLOYS
Onur Ozaydina*, Alper Kayaa
aCevher Wheels
*oozaydin@cevherwheels.com
Abstract:
AlSi7Mg and AlSi11Mg are the most commonly used materials in aluminum alloy wheel production.
The main difference is the heat treatment application; for wheel production AlSi7Mg is usually used
in heat treated form while AlSi11Mg is not. Heat treatment processes play a vital role on production
costs. More than fifty percent of aluminum wheels are heat treated however the exact value varies
between different manufacturers. Additional heat treatment costs directly affect the
competitiveness of the manufacturer. In this study the material properties of an alternative Si level
between AlSi7Mg and AlSi11Mg is examined and the effects of these intermediate Si levels on
mechanical properties is are compared with that of AlSi7Mg and AlSi11Mg. The aim of this study to
examine the possibility of obtaining mechanical properties of heat treated AlSi7Mg with a non-heattreated material differing only in Si content. In this experiment all processes and casting parameters
for different material types are the same except for the Si content. In addition to an experimental
study, the mechanical properties of the alternative material are simulated by utilizing a material
analysis software and these properties are compared with experimental results. Thus, correlation
between simulation and experimental study results can also be examined.
As a conclusion, the alternative non-heat-treated material is presented to manufacturers. These
results may be used to bypass the heat treatment process and to decrease the cost of final product.
Keywords: Aluminum, Heat Treatment, Mechanical Properties, Simulation Of Material Properties
*108
THE MECHANICAL PROPERTIES OF SR MODIFICATION ON ALUMINIUM
CASTING ALLOYS
Onur Ozaydina*, Alper Kayaa, Elvan Armakana, Ender Yildirima
Acevher Wheels
*oozaydin@cevherwheels.com
Abstract:
Al-Si based alloys are commonly used in aluminum alloy wheel production. Inoculant materials such
as Antimony (Sb), Sodium (Na) and and Strontium (Sr) modify the structure from a course structure
to a finer one. Antimony (Sb) and Sodium (Na) may cause occupational health and safety and holding
time problems. On the other hand Strontium (Sr) is commonly used in industry as an inoculant
material in Al-Si based alloys and Sr modifies not only silicon particles but also transforms phases in
morphology, hence Sr modification leads to better mechanical properties. On the other hand, high
amount of Sr causes porosity in the structure and the average grain size is increased proportionally
with higher Sr levels.
In this study different Sr levels are examined to obtain an optimum result regarding mechanical
properties and chemical composition. After the calculation, the correlations between mechanical
properties and material characterization are examined. Holding time after the modification affects
the mechanical properties. In the second part of this study different Sr holding time levels are
evaluated to see the effect on mechanical properties.
As a conclusion the optimum Sr modification level and optimum holding time after modification are
presented. Optimization of process parameters may be helpful to researchers working on
modification in aluminum alloys.
Keywords: Alsi7, Sr Modification, Holding Time, Metallurgical Properties, Material Characterization
*109
PROPERTIES OF BOARDS MADE FROM WOOD/COTTON WASTE
MIXTURES
Omer Umit Yalcina*, Halil Turgut Sahina, Isa Yavilioglua
aSuleyman Demirel University
*omeryalcin@sdu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Cotton waste, which is formed during the processing of high added textile products from cotton
plants and expressed as waste, is mixed with red pine wood chips at certain rates by adding 10%
(w/w) by thermoset synthetic Urea-formaldehyde (UF) resin. The mechanical and physical
properties of boards were determined according to approriate standards. It was clearly realized that
the presence of cotton waste in boards structure causes some level improve and/or lowering
particular properties of boards. The highest MOR and MOE values of 15.07 N/mm2 and 1773 N/mm2
were found for boards that manufactured with 60:40 wood chip/cotton waste (percentage by
weight). However, the highest internal bond strengths of 0.29 N/mm2 was observed with boards of
50:50 wood chip/cotton waste (percentage by weight) boards. In general, the lowering wood chip
contents could effects decrease IB values approximately 10.7-21.4%.
It is realized that valuable cellulosic cotton waste could be useful for production of various type
composite materials alone or as wood substitute with mixture of red pine wood chips. However,
there is a need to understand more clearly the structural and mechanical changes that take place in
the boards made from mixture of wood and cotton waste. So, understanding the fundamental
change and strength properties of that type of boards may open the possibility to increase utilization
of cotton waste.
Keywords: Red Pine, Cotton Waste, Particle Boards, Strength Properties, Cellulose
*110
PINE LITTLE NEEDLES: ITS PROPERTIES AND POTENTIAL
UTILIZATIONS
Omer Umit Yalcina*, Halil Turgut Sahina
aSuleyman Demirel University
*omeryalcin@sdu.edu.tr
Abstract:
The pine trees (Pinus spp.) are one of the most abundant genus of conifers in Northen hemisphere
and widespread distribution all over the World. However, the needles apperance and physical
structure varies markedly between the different pine species (i.e. bundled, spiral, linear, colored,
small to large, short to long, etc.) and is often crucial for the identification of species of pines.
Moreover, the pine species typically bear 1-5 needles that are arranged in groups and that are
bundled together form a fascicle. It has already evaluated as used for pharmaceutical purposes,
ornament materials, energy sources, environmental pollution indicator and various valuable material
potantial. Some important findings have already been reported in literature. Hence, the vast of
literature on coniferous needles has already been reviewed and pointed by a number of researchers.
Some excellent bibliographies provide a thorough index to the literature on pine little needles. Most
studies focus on the anatomical and chemical structures, which depend on the species and have
particular characteristics that range from their essential oils and medicinal compounds from some
pine needles.
But it is important to note that because of strong competition from other natural materials, markets
for needles have not been in great demand. However, efficient pine needle utilization may create a
new industry by making a valuable asset out of a waste. In this sense, in this study, the potential use
of pine little needles through anatomical and chemical properties, to provide a basis for future
applications have been reviewed. Some literature findings have been reviewed and important
findings regarding their valuable properties are reported.
Keywords: Pine Needles, Applications, Chemical Properties, Essential Oils.
*111
A STUDY ON LINE RATE NEIGHBORING FOR MLR WDM OPTICAL
NETWORKS
Gul Boztok Algina, E. Turhan Tunalib*
aEge University
bIzmir University Of Economics
*turhan.tunali@ieu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Due to their high transmission capability, mixed-line-rate (MLR) optical network employing
wavelength-division-multiplexing (WDM) on fibers is one of the best candidates to support the
increasing traffic volume of communication networks. Since different line rates coexist on different
wavelengths of a fiber in MLR networks, in addition to other physical impairments, cross-phase
modulation (XPM) effect arises. Studies show that a significant performance penalty occurs for 100
Gbps and 40 Gbps coherent DP-QPSK wavelengths due to XPM induced by adjacent 10 Gbps OOK
wavelengths. This problem must be handled during wavelength assignment process. By measuring
the performance of a signal by its transmission reach, in order to keep the signal’s quality of
transmission (QoT) in adequate level, the effective transmission reach of the underlying line rate
must be adapted according to other line rates used in adjacent wavelengths of the same fiber. In this
work, we study the assignment of neighboring line rates in MLR WDM optical networks. Simulations
are carried out to demonstrate the effect of constraining line rate neighboring over routing
performance in terms of communication cost and resource utilization. As simulation test bed,
Survivable Routing with Rate and Wavelength Assignment (SRRWA) using shared backup path
protection algorithm for dynamic traffic model that has been previously developed by the authors is
used. The results of constrained strategies are compared with unconstrained wavelength assignment
method. Simulation results show that constraining the wavelengths to be assigned for each line rate
increases traffic blocking of the network dramatically.
Keywords: Optical WDM Networks, MLR, SRRWA, Survivable Communication, Rate Assignment
*this abstract was already submitted by the first author and accepted112
AERODYNAMIC BEHAVIOR OF WIND TURBINE AIRFOIL UNDER
UNSTEADY WIND SPEEDS
Gamze Genca, Burak Karakayaa*, Mustafa Serdar Genca
Aerciyes University
*burakkarakaya@erciyes.edu.tr
Abstract:
The studies on renewable energy sources aimed to increase energy efficiency. In order to increase
the efficiency of a wind turbine, it can be increased lift coefficient and decreased drag coefficient of
the blade and the wind speed is one of the parameters that affect these coefficients. Stable and
higher wind speeds affect the wind energy output. In this study, aerodynamic performance of the
blade was numerically investigated under instantaneous changing wind speeds. Unsteady wind
speeds were obtained in Pinarbasi region of Kayseri and this wind speeds were introduced with userdefined function (UDF) to FLUENT CFD programme. Time dependent solutions were used in
numerical solutions and mesh independence was considered. NACA 0012 symmetric and NACA 2412
chambered airfoils were used for wind turbine blade. The results were showed that the cambered
blade airfoil oscillated more than the symmetric blade airfoil. It was observed that instantaneous
changes in wind speeds significantly affected the lift and drag coefficients.
Keywords: Wind Spedd,Aerodynamic Performance,Numerical Analysis
*This work was supported by the project of FYL-2017-7683 by Erciyes University Scientific Research Projects
Institution113
PRODUCT INNOVATION IN SEWING MACHINES
Emine Utkun Aktenera*, Nezla Unala
aPamukkale University, Buldan Vocational School, Fashion Design Department
*eutkun@pau.edu.tr
Abstract:
Product Innovation in Sewing Machines
With the globalization in the world the extent of competing is increasing. In these conditions,
companies or firms need innovation to be more efficient and productive and to give what is needed
from them. Innovation is a concept that has existed for centuries and expresses novelty and
creativity. It is known that development and progress without innovation and creativity is not
possible. Innovation can be in the features of a product and service, in process or in marketing fields.
Product innovation is the introduction of a product or service that is new or considerably improved
in terms of its features or intended uses into the market. Product innovation includes significant
improvements/developments in technical specifications, parts and materials, firmware, ease of use,
or other functional features.
In this study, the product innovations that sewing machines used in the apparel industry underwent
were examined in the historical process.
Keywords: Sewing Machine, Product Innovation, Textile Industry, Apparel Industry
*114
A NEW HYBRID STOCHASTIC-DETERMINISTIC OPTIMIZATION
METHOD BASED ON FILLED FUNCTION
Ihsan Pencea*, Melike Siseci Cesmelia
aMehmet Akif Ersoy University
*ihsanpence@mehmetakif.edu.tr
Abstract:
In general, popular methods for solving global optimization problems can be divided into two
categories as deterministic and stochastic methods. Both methods have some advantages and
disadvantages against each other. The preferred deterministic method as filled function method
aims to construct an auxiliary function called filled function via the current local minimizer of the
global optimization problem. The better points are located on filled function’s basin location and
finding this region is difficult with conventional methods, and if the step distance is not very small,
the area can’t be detected by passing. Also, this procedure costs a lot of time. In this study, a hybrid
stochastic-deterministic approach is presented as a faster and more efficient alternative for classic
filled function method. Unconstrained global optimization method based on clustering and parabolic
approximation (GOBC-PA) used as a stochastic method for accelerating the L filled function method
as a deterministic method for searching the basin region. The methods that are used in this study
preferred because of their popularity, speed and robustness. The stochastic method’s objective
function is the epsilon value of the gradient that gives the location of basin region. So, only purpose
of the stochastic method is to find basin region, not to find global optimum. The role of finding the
global minimum has been left to deterministic method. The developed method has been tested
against classical filled function with 11 benchmark functions. All functions have 2-dimension and
process repeated 10 times. When the obtained results are examined, it is seen that the hybrid
approach has superiority over the mean error, standard deviation and elapsed time values according
to the classical approach. These results show that combination of deterministic and stochastic
method can be more successful finding the global minimum according to classic deterministic
method.
Keywords: Global Optimization , Gobc-Pa , Filled Function
*115
COMPARISON OF METHOD A1 AND B OF TENSILE TEST ON
ALUMINIUM SPECIMENS
Ramakumar Jayachandrana*, Christian Weibmullerb
aInstitution
bIfep
*ramakumar.jayachandran@hydro.com
Abstract:
Tensile test is the predominant test method used in extrusion industry to ensure if minimal
mechanical properties imposed by the product are met. The two most governing standards to
perform the tensile test are the ISO – EN 6892-1 (2016) and the ASTM–E8.16. The new version of the
standard IS0 6892-1 (2016) strongly recommends using method A of the tensile test. A set of premachined specimen were sent to eighteen different labs to test both Method A1 and Method B of
the tensile test. This paper presents the comparison of the test results from the two different test
methods. Each method was evaluated for four specific criteria
1.Determination of 0,2 %-proof strength Rp0,2
2.Determination of the tensile strength Rm
3.Determination of percentage elongation after fracture A manually
4.Determination of percentage elongation after fracture A extensomer
The evaluation of the results shows no significant difference between the two test methods on 6061
aluminium alloy.
Keywords: Aluminium, Extrusion, Method A1, Method B, Strain, Stress, Tensile Test.
*Hydro Extruded Solutions116
FACTORIAL DESIGN CONTRAST ANALYSIS BASED IDENTIFICATION OF
THE LACTIC ACID BACTERIAL GROWTH IN SAUSAGES STORED AT
DIFFERENT TEMPERATURES
Demet Cangaa*, Selin Kalkanb, Selahaddin Batuhan Akbena
aOsmaniye Korkut Ata University
bGiresun University
*demetcng@gmail.com
Abstract:
In this study, lactic acid bacteria (LAB) growth in vacuum packed sausages stored at 4 and 25 oC
during 10 storage days was analysed. Contrast analysis was used as the method for this aim since
can ask specific questions on demand. So, the temperature, storage days and interactions were
evaluated by means of the contrast estimates that correspond to specific questions identified with
bidirectional factorial design. The R software was used for the implementation of method. Factors
determined in the method are temperature and storage days. According to the results of ANOVA
with contrast analysis, it was determined that the increase in temperature (4 0C or 25 0C)
significantly affected the change of LAB amount (p <0.01). Also, the effect of LAB growth depending
on storage period increases as quadratic (p <0.01). Furthermore, interaction between the storage
day and temperatures that are 4 0C or 25 0C significantly differentiated (R=0,89) the amount of
lactic especially at tenth storage day. Finally, some suggestions have been made about the storage
conditions depending on the interaction of temperature and storage day, by means of the findings of
study.
Keywords: Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) Growth, Factorial ANOVA, Contrast, Sausage
*117
DESIGN AND OPTIMIZATION OF AMORPHOUS COMPACT MICROSTRIP
ANTENNA USING ARTIFICIAL BEE COLONY ALGORITHM FOR
MICROWAVE IMAGING APPLICATIONS
Mustafa Berkan Bicera*, Ali Akdaglia
aMersin University
*mberkanbicer@gmail.com
Abstract:
In this study, a compact microstrip antenna with a relatively small in size and a non-symmetrical
shape that can be used alone or as a part of an antenna array in ultrawideband microwave imaging
applications is designed and optimized using the artificial bee colony algorithm to perform a good
ultrawideband bandwidth characteristics. The design and simulations of the designed microstrip-fed
monopole antennas, with outer size of 40 x 50 mm2 on an FR4 substrate with permittivity of 4.3 and
a thickness of 1.5 mm, are utilized with the use of a full-wave electromagnetic simulation software
based on the moment method (MoM). As a result of the optimizations made using the artificial bee
colony algorithm, two different antenna designs with broadband performance were obtained. The
return loss (S11) results show that the characteristics of the proposed antennas meet the bandwidth
requirements and offer good performance for applications operating between 3.1 GHz and 10.6
GHz, covering the entire ultrawideband frequencies.
Keywords: Antenna, Design, Microstrip, Microwave Imaging, Ultrawideband
*This study was supported by the Research Fund of Mersin University in Turkey with Project Number: 2017-1-
TP3-2190.118
INVESTIGATING THE CORROSION BEHAVIOUR OF AA6060 ALLOY IN
NAOH-NA2SIO3 SOLUTION
Alptekin Kisasoza*
aYildiz Technical University
*akisasoz@gmail.com
Abstract:
Aluminium alloys have been widely used in automotive and food packaging industries owing to their
relative lightness, specific strength, and corrosion resistance in the various environments. The
mechanical properties of the AA6XXX alloy increase with age hardening process by the formation of
intermetallic particulates in the matrix structure. Unfortunately, these particulates have a negative
influence on the corrosion resistance of AA6XXX alloy. Especially, the corrosion resistance of the
AA6XXX alloys decreases drastically in alkaline media. Also, inhibitors can slow down the corrosion
rate of aluminium alloys in alkaline media. In this study, corrosion behaviour of AA6060-T6 alloy in
NaOH solution is investigated. Corrosion tests are carried out in 0.01 and 0.1M NaOH and, sodium
silicate is used as an inhibitor to slow down the corrosion rate of AA6060 alloy in NaOH solutions.
Moreover, Corrosion properties are determined by measuring weight loss of the samples and also,
pH values of the solutions.
Keywords: Aluminium, Aging, Corrosion
*119
THE EFFECT OF PREFORM PREHEATING ON MICROSTRUCTURAL AND
MECHANICAL FEATURES OF 80% CP-TI REINFORCED A356 MATRIX
COMPOSITE
Ridvan Gecua*, Ahmet Karaaslana
aYildiz Technical University
*ridvangecu@gmail.com
Abstract:
Commercially pure titanium (CP-Ti) reinforced A356 aluminum matrix composites were fabricated by
melt infiltration casting. Nearly same sized CP-Ti sawdusts were assembled under 440 MPa pressure
to procure one-piece preforms with 20% porosity. The vacancies of the preforms were filled by
molten A356 alloy in a plaster mould at 700°C under -105 Pa vacuum atmosphere. CP-Ti preforms
were preheated in a plaster mould for 0, 30, 60 and 240 minutes before infiltration to determine the
effects of preform preheating on microstructural and mechanical features of manufactured
composites. A356 alloy was melt at 790°C in an electrical furnace for casting operation. After melt
infiltration casting, A356 matrix composites containing 80% CP-Ti reinforcement were successfully
manufactured. Produced specimens were characterized by light optical microscopy, scanning
electron microscopy and micro-Vickers hardness measurements. TiAl3 intermetallic phase was
obtained at Al/Ti interfaces of 0 and 240 min preheated samples. Oxide film formed during
preheating acted as a barrier to Al diffusion and only mechanical bonding was observed for 30 and
60 min preheated specimens. Excessive preheating caused thicker oxide film which was broken
because of its increasing brittleness when it was exposed to molten A356 alloy during casting. Due to
broken oxide film, Al alloy diffused in Ti part and TiAl3 phase was formed for 240 min preheated
sample. The average TiAl3 hardness of 0 and 240 min preheated samples was calculated 474 and
507 HV0.01, respectively.
Keywords: A356 Alloy, Commercially Pure Titanium, Melt Infiltration Casting, Composite
*120
DRY SLIDING WEAR PROPERTIES OF AA7075 ALUMINUM MATRIX
HYBRID COMPOSITES
Ridvan Gecua*, Serhat Acara, Alptekin Kisasoza, Kerem Altug Gulera, Ahmet Karaaslana
aYildiz Technical University
*ridvangecu@gmail.com
Abstract:
304 stainless steel (SS) and commercially pure titanium (CP-Ti) reinforced AA7075 aluminum matrix
hybrid composites were manufactured by melt infiltration casting under vacuum atmosphere.
Various SS and CP-Ti contents (at the ratios of 3:1, 1:1 and 1:3) in AA7075 alloy were studied and the
effects of SS/CP-Ti ratio on wear resistance of produced composites were investigated. All casting
operations of Al alloy were performed at 830°C. Produced composites were characterized by light
optical microscope and pin-on-disc type tribometer with using 6 mm diameter Al2O3 counterpart
under 10 N load during 100 m sliding distance. Reaction phases were formed at both Al/CP-Ti and
Al/SS interfaces. Double-layered intermetallic compound (IMC) was formed between AA7075 and
304 SS alloys whereas monolayer IMC was obtained at Al/CP-Ti interface. Formation of hot cracks in
SS/Al interface was occurred while good metallurgical and mechanical bonding was observed
between Al matrix and CP-Ti reinforcement. With increasing SS amounts in composite structure,
wear rates were slightly decreased. In spite of increased hot crack formation at the interface, the
best wear resistance was obtained in 75% 304 SS and 25% CP-Ti reinforced AA7075 matrix hybrid
composites because double-layered IMC between AA7075 and 304 SS was more resistant to wear
than that of monolayer IMC at Al/CP-Ti interface.
Keywords: AA7075 Alloy, Commercially Pure Titanium, 304 Stainless Steel, Melt Infiltration Casting,
Hybrid Composite, Wear
*121
COOLING SLOPE CASTING AND THIXOFORGING OF A319 ALLOY
Serhat Acara*, Kerem Altug Gulera
aYildiz Technical University, Department Of Metallurgical And Materials Engineering
*seacar@yildiz.edu.tr
Abstract:
Semi-solid metal forming techniques have become more remarkable in recent decades due to
advantages of both process and product properties. This technique principally relies on feedstocks
with non-dendritic microstructure and well-studied for common aluminum casting alloys like A356
and A380 which are used for diverse industries such as automotive, aviation and marine. In order to
obtain globular microstructure different routes are developed and these routes can be classified in
two different branch: liquid metal and solid state routes. In this study, cooling slope casting, which is
one of the liquid metal route, were chosen as feedstock production method for A319 alloy and a
copper tube with the length of 650 mm is used as a cooling slope without water circulation. Castings
were carried out at 635 °C and the tilt angle was 60° for copper tube. Obtained billets were cut into
pieces with 40 mm height. One specimen was kept as reference without being exposed to any
further treatment. Two specimens for each reheating time were reheated at 585 °C for 20, 40, 60
and 80 minutes. One of the each duplicates was quenched in water in order to freeze the present
microstructure and the other one was thixoforged with 50% deformation via a hydraulic press.
Microstructural investigation was performed with the evaluation of spheroidization index and
average globule size for every sample. Brinell hardness test was carried out to examine the relation
between microstructure and mechanical properties. Reheated for 40 minutes and quenched sample
displayed the highest spheroidization index with 0,951, which is one of the most important feature
for thixoforming feedstocks. On the other hand, maximum hardness value was observed on the
sample with 20 minutes reheating time due to finer microstructure.
Keywords: Thixoforging, A319, Cooling Slope Casting
*122
INVESTIGATION OF THE EFFECTS OF SOLUTION HEAT TREATMENT
TIME ON EUTECTIC SILICON FOR A356 ALLOY
Serhat Acara*, Ridvan Gecua, Alptekin Kisasoza, Kerem Altug Gulera, Ahmet Karaaslana
aYildiz Technical University, Department Of Metallurgical And Materials Engineering
*seacar@yildiz.edu.tr
Abstract:
In this research microstructural variations for A356 aluminum casting alloy were examined with
different casting methods and different solution heat treatment time. Permanent and green sand
moulds were used for casting processes which were carried out at 730°C. Effects of different cooling
rate which arised from different mould type and solution heat treatment time have been
investigated with the variations on microstructures and hardness values. Cast samples were solution
heat treated at 525 °C for 3, 6 and 12 hours to observe the effects of solution heat treatment time
on different casting methods. All specimens including as-casts were undergone metallographic
preparation and all microstructures were evaluated in terms of determining secondary dendritic arm
spacing (SDAS) for as-cast specimens and differentiations on aspect ratio of eutectic silicon for heat
treated samples. Brinell hardness tests were carried out on each sample in order to relate the
hardness property with microstructural variations. SDAS values were found higher in specimen cast
into green sand mould than the other specimen cast into permanent metal mould due to slower
cooling rate and thusly displaying lower hardnes value. Maximum hardness and the lowest aspect
ratio values were obtained with solution treatment time of 3 hours for both mould type.
Keywords: A356 Aluminum Alloy, Solution Heat Treatment, Eutectic Silicon
*123
STABILIZING KAOLINITE CLAY WITH LIQUID POLYMER RESIN
Altug Saygilia*, Gozde Turana, Ezgi Kirmizia, Elif Varguna
aMugla Sitki Kocman University
*altugsaygili@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Ground improvement techniques are widely used as an alternative method to replace the unsuitable
material on site. Various techniques for soil stabilization are used to reduce the settlements of the
structures, to improve the shear strength and thus increase the bearing capacity of shallow
foundations, to increase the factor of safety against slope failures and to reduce shrinkage and
swelling of soils. Usage of liquid polymers as chemical stabilizers in soil stabilization is growing in
recent years. Liquid melamine formaldehyde resin is used in this study to improve the mechanical
performance of the kaolinite clay samples. Laboratory experiments are conducted to evaluate the
effects of liquid polymer addition to the clay samples compacted at the optimum moisture content.
Liquid melamine
formaldehyde resin is added at dosages of 0, 3, 6, 9 and 12% by weight to kaolinite clay samples and
compacted with miniature Harvard compaction device at standart compaction energy and cured for
3, 7, 14 and 28 days. Control and stabilized samples were subjected to unconfined compression tests
after curing to determine the strength increase with different curing times and polymer ratios. The
results indicated that liquid melamine formaldehyde resin improved the
strength of kaolinite clay samples up to 6 times.
Keywords: Liquid Polymer, Kaolinite Clay, Soil Stabilization, Unconfined Compressive Strength
*124
MODELING OF LACTIC ACID BACTERIA CONCENTRATION AND
STORAGE TIME DEPENDENT STORAGE TEMPERATURE OF EMULSION
TYPE SAUSAGES USING ARTIFICIAL NEURAL NETWORKS
Selahaddin Batuhan Akbena, Selin Kalkanb*, Demet Cangac
aOsmaniyekorkut Ata University, Bahce Vocational School, Department Of Computer Technologies
bGiresun University, Faculty Of Engineering, Department Of Food Engineering
cOsmaniye Korkut Ata University, Bahce Vocational School, Department Of Food Processing
*selin.kalkan@giresun.edu.tr
Abstract:
Emulsion type sausages tend to deteriorate faster due to high pH and water activity even if many
vegetative cells can be inactivated by the cooking process since they may be contaminated
depending on the slicing packing and peeling period. In emulsion type sausages, lactic acid bacteria
(LAB) often create a predominant flora and some heterofermentative types can even continue to
grow at low temperature storage conditions after the growth happened at high temperatures. So,
the LAB growth at product storage temperature is important in terms of shelf life and consumability.
Therefore, an average of past storage temperatures must be determined by the measured LAB
values and storage time dependent model result to determine whether the storage conditions are
sufficient or not. For this reason, this study suggests an artificial neural network (ANN) model that
can predict the average of past storage temperature of vacuum packed sausages and the model
inputs are storage time and measured LAB concentration. The LAB concentrations of vacuum
packaged sausages were measured at 4 and 25 °C along 10 days of storage time in the experiment to
determine the ANN model inputs and control outputs. In other words, the measured LAB
concentrations and storage period were considered as independent variables of experiment while
the storage temperatures considered as the dependent variable. Thus, the LAB concentration values
and storage time were entered as input to ANN while the storage temperature values as output. The
determination coefficient ? (R? ^2) of proposed ANN model with single neuroned hidden layer was
0,91. Also, the easily applicable model equation with few parameters were suggested since the
determined best ANN model has a single neuron hidden layer.In addition, an image matrix is also
provided by trying the possible input values with ANN to visual determination of average storage
temperature related to combinations of LAB concentration value and storage time. As a result, it was
determined and suggested the average of past storage temperature of the product can easily be
predicted by means of the LAB concentration value and storage time dependent ANN model that
can be improved by more temperature values to be measured in the experiments.
Keywords: Lactic Acid Bacteria, Artificial Neural Network, Modelling, Sausages
*125
EVALUATION OF WASTE MARBLE USAGE IN BITUMINOUS MIXTURES
Ismail Cagri Gorkema*
aMugla Sitki Kocman University
*cagrigorkem@mu.edu.tr
Abstract:
In recent years, developments in global economy and increasing in commercial activities cause high
amount of heavy vehicle traffic on existing roads. This leads to early deformations in the flexible
pavements by decreasing the expected service lives and levels. It is necessary to build new highway
networks due to these commercial developments. Nowadays, researchers have been working on
alternative sources because of the limited resources for construction of road pavements. It is known
that during the mining processes of marble, a large amount of waste material occurs. The created
waste marble disposal sites cause harmful effects on environment and change the topography of the
land; thus, they also create visual pollution. With the increasing environmental awareness in recent
years, instead of opening new stone quarry sites, the utilization of waste materials in bituminous
mixtures has gained importance. It has been thought that waste marble aggregates, which
structurally resemble to limestone aggregates, can be used in bituminous mixtures. For this purpose,
the performance of bituminous mixtures prepared with two different types of aggregates (limestone
and marble aggregate) has been evaluated. In this sense, traditional bitumen tests have been
applied on B50/70 classified virgin binder and the properties of both limestone and marble
aggregates have been determined. The performances of bituminous mixtures prepared with both
limestone and waste marble aggregates have been specified by the help of Marshall Stability and
Flow Test. It has been determined that the results obtained are promising.
Keywords: Waste Marble, Flexible Pavement, Bituminous Mixtures, Calcite.
*126
GUIDELINES FOR PRELIMINARY DESIGN OF WAVE BARRIERS
Deniz Ulgena*, Onur Toygara
aMugla Sitki Kocman University
*denizulgen@mu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Wave barriers have recently become an efficient solution for reducing the ground borne vibrations
disturbing people living inside units. The main logic behind the use of those barriers is scattering
and diffraction of Rayleigh waves by solid obstacles. A good deal of research has focused on the
isolation performance of open and in-filled trenches through numerical analyses. However, there is
very limited numerical study validated with full-scale experiments. In the present study, field tests
are performed to investigate the screening efficiency of wave barriers and the findings are used in
the verification of finite element model. Results of the experimental and numerical analyses are
compared with the literature data and special emphasis is given to specify the parameters affecting
isolation performance of wave barriers. Thus, it is intended to provide guidelines for the preliminary
design of wave barriers.
Keywords: Wave Barriers, Rayleigh Wave, Trench, Scattering
*The research leading to these results has been funded from Mugla Sitki Kocman University BAP-Project Code
17/080127
MHD FLOW AND HEAT TRANSFER OVER A RADIALLY STRETCHING
DISK
Anuar Ishaka*
aUniversiti Kebangsaan Malaysia
*anuarishak001@gmail.com
Abstract:
The first study on the flow over a stretching plate was done by Crane in 1970, where an exact
solution to the Navier-Stokes equations was reported. The industrial applications in this stretching
plate/sheet problem are arising in polymer industry, manufacturing of plastic and rubber sheet, glass
glowing, continuous casting and spinning of fibres. On the other side, Wang in 1990 pioneered the
boundary layer flow over a shrinking plate, where a specific unsteady shrinking film solution was
discussed. Different from the stretching case, the shrinking sheet has a unique character which
features with a reverse flow in the boundary layer that would create a complexity. There are two
conditions where the solutions of the flow towards a shrinking sheet is possible to exist, having an
adequate suction imposed on the boundary or creating a stagnation flow.
In the present study, we investigate the effects of suction on the radially stretching or shrinking disk.
The governing partial differential equations are first transformed to a set of ordinary differential
equations by a similarity transformation, and then is solved numerically with the help of MATLAB
software. It is found that the magnetic and suction effects are more pronounced for the shrinking
case. Magnetic field increases the skin friction coefficient but decreases the local Nusselt number.
Both the skin friction coefficient and the local Nusselt number increase as suction increases.
Keywords: MHD, Shrinking, Disk, Heat Transfer, Dual Solutions
*128
WELDING OF AA7075 TO GALVANIZED STEEL BY COLD METAL
TRANSFER METHOD
Hulya Durmusa, Nilay Comeza*
aManisa Celal Bayar University
*nilay.comez@cbu.edu.tr
Abstract:
The need for hybrid structures gains importance especially in vehicle industry in order to provide
lightness. Hybrid structures of metals can be built by detachable joints or welding processes. The
common problem in welding of dissimilar materials lies behind the formation of intermetallic phases
and different thermal and electrical properties of these materials. In this study, cold metal transfer
welding was applied to obtain AA7075-galvanized steel joints. The effect of heat input on tensile
strenght of dissimilar joints and on thickness and mechanical properties of intermetallic layer was
investigated. Formation of intermetallic phase layer was observed by microstructural investigations.
Intermetallic phases were identified by SEM-EDX and XRD analyses. Mechanical properties of
AA7075-galvanized steel joints were determined by tensile testing. Hardness and elastic modulus of
intermetallic phases were determined by nano indentation technique. The outcomes showed that
increasing heat input increased the intermetallic layer thickness and tensile strength. However,
brittle fracture occurred in intermetallic layer between aluminium and galvanized steel due to the
increasing layer thickness.
Keywords: AA7075, Steel, Welding, Intermetallic, Nano Indentation, Strength
*This study was supported with the project of TUBITAK215M623 by The Scientific and Technological Research
Council of Turkey129
A COMPERATIVE STUDY ABOUT THE FE-C-CR AND FE-CR-C-B BASED
FLUX CORED WIRES USED IN HARDFACING
Hulya Durmusa, Canser Gula, Melis Yurddaskala, Nilay Comeza*
aManisa Celal Bayar University
*nilay.comez@cbu.edu.tr
Abstract:
Present study aimed to investigate the abrasive wear resistance of hardfacing coatings that were
produced by open arc welding using Fe-C-Cr and Fe-Cr-C-B based flux cored wires. A powder mixture
consisting of 10% FeB and 90% FeCr powders was also added during the welding process. Hardfacing
coatings contains 70 % flux cored wire + 30 % FeCr-FeB powder mixture. Hardness test and
microstructural investigations were applied to understand the wear mechanism of coatings. The
hardness of coating produced with Fe-Cr-C-B based flux cored wire was found to be higher than that
of Fe-C-Cr based flux cored wire. Dry sand/rubber wheel abrasion test was carried out according to
ASTM G-65 standard. Surfaces were examined by SEM after abrasion test. The results showed that
the flux cored wire with boron exhibited better wear resistance than the flux cored wire without
boron. The outcomes of hardness test in association with the wear test shows that, increased
coating hardness has a great influence on abrasive wear resistance.
Keywords: Hardfacing, Wear, Abrasion, Hardness
*130
A SUCCESSIVE SIDE-PEAK ELIMINATION TECHNIQUE FOR
UNAMBIGUOUS BOC SIGNAL SYNCHRONIZATION IN GLOBAL
NAVIGATION SATELLITE SYSTEMS
Eunyoung Choa, Keunhong Chaea, Seokho Yoona*
aSungkyunkwan University
*syoon@skku.edu
Abstract:
Recently, binary offset carrier (BOC) modulation has attracted much attention in global navigation
satellite systems (GNSS) such as GPS, Galileo, GLONASS, and BeiDou, since it provides a higher
degree of accuracy in positioning than that of the conventional binary phase shift keying modulation.
One of the most critical tasks in BOC-based GNSS receivers is the synchronization in phase between
the received and locally generated BOC signals, where the received BOC signal is first correlated with
the locally generated BOC signal with different phases in a serial or in a parallel way, then the
maximum is chosen among the correlations corresponding to each of the phases, and finally, the
phase associated with the maximum is determined to be that of the received BOC signal. Therefore,
the correlation peak (corresponding to the maximum correlation) plays a very important role in
synchronization. The correlation functions of BOC-modulated signals have a string of side-peaks
around the correlation peak, and thus, the channel impairments such as the white noise and multipath interference often cause the synchronization to be achieved not at the correlation peak but at
one of the side-peaks, eventually leading to a significant error in positioning, which is the major
technical issue in BOC-based GNSS receivers. In this paper, thus, we propose a successive side-peak
elimination scheme, where the highest side-peak is first eliminated by subtracting its estimate from
the correlation function, and then, the remaining side-peaks are successively eliminated based on
the ratios of each of the remaining side-peaks to the highest side-peak. Since the proposed scheme
is exploiting only inherent components of the BOC correlation function without extrinsic aids, it has a
low complexity and is applicable to all types of BOC modulation.
Acknowledgments: This study was supported by Basic Science Research Program through the NRF of
Korea under Grant 2015R1D1A1A01057327.
Keywords: Global Navigation Satellite Systems, Binary Offset Carrier, Unambiguous, Synchronization
*This study was supported by Basic Science Research Program through the NRF of Korea under Grant
2015R1D1A1A01057327131
PREDICTION OF THE LACTIC ACID BACTERIA GROWTH CAUSED BY
STORAGE CONDITIONS IN VACUUM PACKED SAUSAGES USING
POLYNOMIAL SURFACE MODELING METHOD
Selin Kalkana, Selahaddin Batuhan Akbenb*, Demet Cangac
aFaculty Of Engineering, Department Of Food Engineering, Giresun University
bBahce Vocational School, Department Of Computer Technologies, Osmaniye Korkut Ata University
cBahce Vocational School, Department Of Food Processing, Osmaniye Korkut Ata University
*batu130@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Vacuum packaging can resist enough the growth of Pseudomonas spp., however it can not resist
enough the growth of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) Brochothrix thermosphacta and Enterobacteriaceae
spp. So, the LAB is commonly defined as a bacterial group that deteriorate the vacuum packaged
meat products. For this reason, LAB growth in vacuum packaged meat products should be estimated
by modeling based on storage time and temperature, to conrol the vacuum packaged sausages. In
this study, aim is to prediction of the growth of LAB in vacuum packaged sausages stored at 4 and 25
0C along 10 day storage period from production date, by means of modelling. For this purpose,
polynomial surface modeling that R^2 is 0,994 was used and a prediction matrix for possible timetemperature combinations was calculated. By means of model, the predicted values of lactic acid
bacteria corresponding to possible combinations of the storage period (between 0-10 days) and
temperature range (between 4 and 25 oC) were calculated and placed to 1024x1024 dimensional
matrix. Then, the values in the prediction matrix were transformed to the corresponding 1 Mpx and
7-bit grayscale image. Finally, after the visual compatibality of image matrix with experiment was
approved, the polynomial surface model and image matrix that represents the relation between the
LAB concentration of vacuum packaged sausages and the storage conditions (temperature-time) was
proposed for the future studies.
Keywords: Polynomial Surface Modelling, Lactic Acid Bacteria, Sausages
*132
DETERMINING THE CONDITIONS FOR SUCCESS OF WART TREATMENT
WITH CRYOTHERAPY USING DECISION TREES METHOD
Selahaddin Batuhan Akbena*
aOsmaniye Korkut Ata University
*batu130@hotmail.com
Abstract:
Warts are small, rough, harmless tumours that occur at the skin. Common, flat, plantar, periungual,
filiform, and genital are the clinical appearance of them. They typically disappear spontaneously, but
it may take years. Warts respond to a variety of treatment. Immunotherapy with candida antigen
and cryotherapy with liquid nitrogen are the best-known wart treatment methods. However,
preference of treatment methods by expert is important since these methods have some difficulties.
For this reason, the success of methods should be determined before the treatment according to the
attributes of patients and disease. In this study, success of cryotherapy method was determined
according to the attributes (Sex, age, time elapsed before treatment, number of warts, types of
warts, surface area of warts) of patients and warts. Decision trees was used as the success
determining method according to the attributes of patients and warts. According to the findings
obtained by decision trees, it was determined that the cryotherapy is successful at 100% for patients
younger than 16,5 years of age. Also, it was successful at 100% for patients ages between 16,5-45,5
years that treated within 8,125 months. For other conditions, it was successful at about 10%. In
other words, whether the cryotherapy applied to common and plantar warts would be successful
according to patient age and disease duration was determined at accuracy 94,44%. Thus, it was
suggested that the success of wart treatment methods depending on patient and disease attributes
can be determined using data mining methods before the treatment.
Keywords: Skin Disease, Wart Treatment Methods, Disease And Patient Attributes, Data Mining,
Biomedical
*133
EXPERIMENTAL ANALYSIS FOR THE THERMAL PERFORMANCE OF A
DOUBLE PIPE HEAT EXCHANGER WITH SIO2-WATER NANOFLUID
Fatih Selimefendigila*, Hakan F. Oztopb
aManisa Celal Bayar University
bFirat University
*fthsel@yahoo.com
Abstract:
Thermal performance of a double pipe heat exchanger with SiO2-water nanofluid was
experimentally investigated. A double pipe heat exchanger with length of 0.5m was considered.
SiO2-water nanofluid with various solid particle volume fractions between 0% and 2.5% were used
as the hot fluid through the inner tube of the heat exchanger. Experimental analysis was performed
for various flow rates and for different inlet temperatures of the nanofluid. Two turbine type flow
meters was used to measure the flow rates of the inner tube and annulus while the inlet
temperature for the hot water was controlled by using an electrical resistance heater. It was
observed that the overall heat transfer coefficient enhances when the solid particle volume fraction
of the nanofluid increases. The increment in the mass flow rate of the hot fluid through the inner
tube results in overall heat transfer coefficient enhancement. The difference between overall heat
transfer coefficient, for water and nanofluid with highest particle volume fraction enhances for
higher flow rates of the hot fluid. For flow rate of 0.87 lt/min there is a difference of 20.60% while
for flow rate of 2.37 lt/min, the difference becomes 83.26%. There is very slight effect of inlet
temperature for the enhancement of the overall heat transfer coefficient when considering
nanofluid at different particle volume fractions.
Keywords: Double Pipe Heat Exchanger, Nanofluid, Sio2 Nanoparticles, Heat Transfer Coefficient
*This study is supported by Scientific Research Projects Unit (BAP) of Manisa Celal Bayar University for the
project no: 2017-010134
EFFECTS OF ELLIPTICAL CONDENSER ON THE PERFORMANCE OF A
VAPOR COMPRESSION REFRIGERATION SYSTEM
Fatih Selimefendigila*, Hakan F. Oztopb
aManisa Celal Bayar University
bFirat University
*fthsel@yahoo.com
Abstract:
In this study, effects of an elliptical condenser on the performance of vapor compression
refrigeration system was examined. Reference configuration was obtained from a refrigerator with
having a circular condenser. Thermodynamic analysis by using first and second law of
thermodynamics was utilized. Performances were tested on an experimental test rig for various
ambient temperatures and for different flow rates of air of the condenser fan. Coefficient of
performances (COP) values were found to be higher when elliptical condensers were used instead of
circular ones. When the ambient temperature increases, the discrepancy between the elliptic and
circular condensers enhances. The difference between two condenser types results in COP
enhancements of 2.15%, 17.3% and 20.2% for the ambient temperatures of 25 oC, 32 oC and 40oC,
respectively. When the elliptic condenser fan air mass flow rate increases, first law efficiencies were
also enhancing. A 15% enhancement in the condenser fan air flow results in 6.94% performance
enhancement. Second law analysis of the system with circular and elliptic condensers reveal that
total irreversibilities can be reduced for a refrigeration system by using elliptic type condensers. It
was observed that a component based improvement in the vapor compression refrigeration system
results in energy and exergy performance improvements.
Keywords: Elliptic Condenser, Thermodynamics Analysis, Coefficient Of Performance, Irreversibility
*This study is supported by The Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TUBITAK) for the
project no: 5150047 who135
CLUSTERING MOODLE USER DATA: A CASE STUDY
Meltem Eryilmaza*, Asli Numanoglu Genca
aAtilim University
*meltem.eryilmaz@atilim.edu.tr
Abstract:
Rapid development in technology resulted in different versions of blended learning in education.
From time to time hybrid, flipped and inverted learning are used as acronyms of blended learning
which is a combination of strong aspects of face to face and online education. Learning Management
Systems (LMS) are the most important tools in blended learning. Among these LMS systems, Moodle
platform is the most widely used environment. Though mostly used, even within the same institutes
the efficiency in using Moodle is quite average. In this study the efficiency of usage of Moodle within
a large private university located in Ankara, Turkey is evaluated by clustering Moodle users
according to their different activities. Clustering is performed by applying Class Analysis method.
There are 1541 courses open in Moodle with 14491 contents. Among the registered users 81% are
actively using Moodle. As a result of analysis of user data and institution’s course database, within
the active courses four user groups were identified. Type I includes “Login” with an approximate
active usage percentage of 42%, Type II includes “Utilization” with an approximate active usage
percentage of 34 %, Type III includes “Sharing” with an approximate active usage percentage of 18%,
and Type IV includes “Discussion” with an approximate active usage percentage of 6%. It is seen that
though most widely used, users’ benefit from Moodle is not still at the desired level.
Keywords: Blended Learning, Moodle, Clustering, Higher Education
*136
IMPACT OF TECHNOLOGY BASED LEARNING ENVIRONMENT ON
STUDENT PERFORMANCE IN A CIVIL ENGINEERING COURSE
Asli Numanoglu Genca*, Meltem Eryilmaza
aAtilim University
*asli.genc@atilim.edu.tr
Abstract:
In recent years, technology based learning environments have been efficiently used in higher
education. These technologies include such as adaptive learning, flipped learning and blended
learning. There are various flexible learning materials such as videos, online recorded lectures,
online recorded tutorials, hand written tutorial solutions, discussion board and online practice
quizzes. This paper presents a case study on the teaching and learning of CE 471 Integrated Coastal
Zone Management (ICZM) Course in the Civil Engineering Department of Atilim University, Turkey.
The lecture is introduced by applying blended learning methods. Moodle platform of Atilim
University is utilized for blended learning. Course topics are discussed in the lecture material and
class times, and students are supported with the online course material, study questions and
discussion board on Moodle platform. Different than the previous years, additional weekly videos
are included in the platform in the last semester. Based on the data of over 100 students over a 3-
year period, it is seen that adding the videos has improved the learning experience of the ICZM
students in civil engineering. The overall continuous use of online supporting materials with the
videos has increased the students’ academic success by 12%. The results of satisfaction score survey
applied at the end of each semester have shown almost 90% of the students agree that video
supported online materials increase their learning and success in the course.
Keywords: Civil Engineering Education, Technology Based Learning, Blended Learning, Higher
Education
*137
THE DETERMINATION OF COASTLINE CHANGE USING SUPPORT
VECTOR MACHINE IN BERDAN DAM LAKE, TURKEY
Sevim Yasemin Ciceklia*, Mustafa Hayri Kesikoglub, Tolga Kaynakb, Coskun Ozkanb
aCukurova University
bErciyes University
*yoturanc@cu.edu.tr
Abstract:
With the development of technology, new techniques have been developed to measure large areas.
Remote sensing technique, which is one of them, is frequently used for monitoring the change of
coastline areas. In this study, the coastline boundary changes of Berdan Dam Lake was detected in
Mersin, Turkey. The dam lake was constructed between 1975 and 1984 for providing hydroelectric
energy, drinking water and irrigation. The coastline boundary changes of Berdan Dam Lake was
determined using Landsat 5 TM and Landsat 8 LDCM satellite images belonging to 2000 and 2017
years respectively. In first step, image to image registration process was performed to conform the
coordinate systems of images to each other. In second step, each satellite image was classified into
two information classes, namely lake and other areas by using support vector machines method. The
image classification accuracies were calculated by using post classification comparison method and
the changes in coastline boundary were determined by image differencing method. The change
image was created with the obtained classification images. It was observed that the lake area
decreased while the other areas increased from 2000 to 2017.At the end of the study changes from
water to land and from land to water were detected in Berdan Dam Lake.
Keywords: Support Vector Machines, Post Classification Comparison, Change Detection, Landsat
Satellite Images, Remote Sensing Technology
*www.iceti.org
I C E T I
II INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE ON ENGINEERING
TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION